COFILIN
Actin is a major component of skeletal muscle thin filaments and rapidly 
polymerises in vitro when purified, although it is unclear how this is
regulated in developing muscle cells [1]. Three regulatory proteins have
been identified in embryonic muscle, where actin is largely unpolymerised,
one of which is cofilin. Cofilin is an actin-modulating protein present in 
brain tissue but not muscle cells, and forms intracellular actin/cofilin
rods in cultured cells exposed to heat shock [2]. It also forms a 1:1
complex with G-actin (monomers) to inhibit polymerisation, and rapidly
depolymerises filamentous actin (F-actin).

Destrin is a protein that also depolymerises F-actin and is very similar
to cofilin, but by contrast is not pH sensitive [3]. Destrin is able to
interact directly with F-actin protomers and remove actin monomers from 
the entire region of F-actin. The 2 proteins differ in their interaction 
with actin, although they are similar in sequence, suggesting that subtle
differences in amino acid composition, possibly in the C-terminal region,
are responsible for their functional distinction. Both proteins contain the
sequence DAIKKK, also found at the C-terminus of tropomyosin, which is
thought to be involved in actin binding [4].

COFILIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
cofilin/destrin family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 4 sequences: motif 4 includes the F-actin binding domain 
encoded by PROSITE pattern COFILIN_TROPOMYOSIN (PS00325). Two iterations
on OWL20.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 6 sequences was identified. Three partial matches were also
found: an actophorin and 2 actin depolymerising factor fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 10 sequences, and 1
partial match.
