STOMATIN
Stomatin, also known as erythrocyte membrane protein band 7.2b, is a 31 kDa
membrane protein [1]. It was named after the rare human disease, haemolytic
anaemia hereditary stomatocytosis. The protein contains a single hydrophobic
domain, close to the N-terminus, and is phosphorylated [1]. The human gene
of stomatin is encoded by seven exons spread over 25 kb of genomic DNA [2].

Stomatin is believed to be involved in regulating monovalent cation
transport through lipid membranes. Absence of the protein in hereditary
stomatocytosis is believed to be the reason for the leakage of Na+ and K+
ions into and from erythrocytes [1].

A second function of stomatin is to act as a cytoskeletal anchor. One
possible example of this is its interaction with some anti-malarial drugs.
Current opinion speculates that such drugs bind to high density lipoproteins
in serum. The lipoproteins are delivered to erythrocytes, where it is
believed they interact with stomatin as a means of transfer to the
intracellular parasite, via a pathway used for the uptake of exogenous
phospholipid [3].

Stomatin-like proteins have been identified in various organisms, including
Caenorhabditis elegans and Mus musculus.

STOMATIN is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
stomatins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 10
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length. A single iteration on OWL29.3 was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting
set. Four partial matches were found, all of which are related sequences
that fail to make significant matches with one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 14 sequences, and 13
partial matches.
