KININOGEN
High molecular weight kininogen (HK) [1] is synthesised as a single poly-
peptide chain in the liver and secreted into the plasma, where it complexes
with prekallikrein and factor XI. On cleavage by human plasma kallikrein,
or factor XIIa, HK liberates bradykinin, which mimics inflammatory 
phenomena such as pain induction, vasodilation and increased vascular
permeability. The mature HK protein comprises 626 residues. Kallikrein-
cleavage yields the nonapeptide bradykinin, together with a cleaved product
containing an N-terminal heavy chain, bound to a C-terminal light chain by
a single interchain disulphide bridge.

Cleavage of HK is required for expression of its procoagulant activity,
which is contained in the light chain. This activity depends on a number of
factors, including the binding of cleaved HK to anionic surfaces [2], which
function is thought to be mediated through a His-Gly-rich region. Recent 
evidence has suggested that critical amino acid sequences within the 
His-Gly-rich region of HK serve as a primary structural feature for binding
to a negatively charged surface [3].

KININOGEN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
HK family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 
sequences, the motifs encoding 3 of the His-Gly-rich regions: motif 2
contains part of the putative structural feature identified by De La Cadena
and Colman as responsible for interaction with negatively charged surfaces.
Two iterations on OWL17.1 were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 7 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 5 sequences.
