VITAMNDBNDNG
A number of serum transport proteins are known to be evolutionarily related,
including albumin, alpha-fetoprotein, vitamin D-binding protein and afamin
[1-3]. Albumin is the main protein of plasma; it binds water, cations (such
as Ca++, Na+ and  K+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin and drugs - its main
function is to regulate the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. Alphafeto-
protein (alpha-fetoglobulin) is a foetal plasma protein that binds various
cations, fatty acids and bilirubin. The biological role of afamin 
(alpha-albumin) has not yet been characterised.

Vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) is an abundant serum glycoprotein secreted
by the liver; the protein transports vitamin D sterols, binds to actin, and 
is found on the surface of B-lymphocytes and subpopulations of T-lymphocytes
[4]. The full length DBP contains 476-amino acids, including a 16-amino
acid signal sequence. Sequence analysis reveals 23% similarity to albumin
and to alpha-fetoprotein [4]. DBP contains a characteristic placement of
cysteine residues, identical to that in albumin, suggesting a similar
folding structure. Albumin and alpha-fetoprotein contain three internally
repeated domains [4]. DBP shows similarity to the first two domains and
has a truncated third domain, supporting the view that DBP is a member of
the albumin/alpha-fetoprotein multigene family [4]. 

Within the sequence, regularly-spaced disulphide bridges generate a 3-domain
folding structure, each domain containing ~170 amino acids, with 5 or 6
internal disulphide bonds, as shown schematically below: 

                   +---+          +----+                        +-----+
                   |   |          |    |                        |     |
xxCxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCCxxCxxxxCxxxxxCCxxxCxxxxxxxxxCxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCCxxxxCxxxx
  |                 |       |     |              |               |
  +-----------------+       +-----+              +---------------+


VITAMNDBNDNG is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
vitamin D-binding proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise the DBPs but distinguish them from related serum albumins
- motifs 1-5 lie in the first repeat; motifs 6 and 7 lie in the second 
repeat; and motifs 8 and 9 reside in the third repeat. Two iterations on 
OWL29.6 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 7 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
