CALPAIN
Cysteine protease activity is dependent on an active dyad of cysteine and
histidine, the order and spacing of these residues varying in the 20 or so
known families. Families C1, C2 and C10 are loosely termed papain-like, and 
nearly half of all cysteine proteases are found exclusively in viruses [1].

Calpain is an intracellular protease involved in many important cellular
functions that are regulated by calcium [2]. The protein is a complex of 2
polypeptide chains (light and heavy), with three known forms in mammals 
[1,3]: a highly calcium-sensitive (i.e., micro-molar range) form known as
mu-calpain, mu-CANP or calpain I; a form sensitive to calcium in the
milli-molar range, known as m-calpain, m-CANP or calpain II; and a third
form, known as p94, which is found in skeletal muscle only [3]. 

All three forms have identical light but different heavy chains [1,2].
The heavy chain comprises four domains: domain 2 contains the catalytic
region; domain 4 binds calcium and regulates activity [1]. Domain 2 shows
low levels of sequence similarity to papain; although the catalytic His has
not been located by biochemical means, it is likely that calpain and papain
are related [1]. Domain 4 has four EF hand calcium-binding regions and is
simmilar to sorcin and the Ca2+-binding region of calpain light chain [1]. 

Calpain shows preferential cleavage for Tyr-|-XAA, Met-|-XAA and Arg-|-XAA
with leucine or valine as the P2 residue. The product of the Drosophila
gene sol has also been shown to be similar to calpain [1].

CALPAIN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
heavy chain of the calpain cysteine protease (C2) family. The fingerprint
was derived from an initial alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were
drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length -
motifs 2 and 3 span the region encoded by PROSITE pattern THIOL_PROTEASE_CYS
(PS00139), which contains the catalytic Cys. Two iterations on OWL30.0 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 33 
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found: S57195,
CAN3_PIG, CAN2_RABIT, SSU23954 and CAN1_PIG are calpain fragments that lack
portions of sequence bearing one or more motifs; SOL_DROME is a Drosophila
optic lobe protein that matches motifs 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 30 sequences, and 11
partial matches.
