HYPRGLYCEMC1
Hyperglycemic hormone, which controls blood sugar levels, is an abundant
peptide in the sinus glands of isopods and decapods [1,2]. The peptide is a
potent secretagogue, releasing digestive enzymes from the hepatopancreas.
It may act as a stress hormone. The peptide contains around 70 amino acid
residues, and includes 6 cysteine residues involved in disulphide bond
formation [2]. The sequences show a high degree of similarity to the
American lobster molt-inhibiting hormone [3], which also shows hyper-
glycemic hormone activity.

Sequence analysis reveals at least 2 discrete sequence families,
characterised by distinctive N- and C-terminal signatures: broadly, the
families represent separate groups of the crustacean hyperglycemic-like
hormones and the molt-inhibiting-like hormones. The positions of 5 of the
6 cysteine residues are conserved between these families, the first Cys
being displaced by one residue position.

HYPRGLYCEMC1 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
hyperglycemic-like hormones (type 1). The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 5 sequences: motif 1 was drawn from the conserved
N-terminal region of the alignment; and motifs 2-4 were drawn from the
C-terminal portion. Two iterations on OWL27.1 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was
identified, including the lobster molt-inhibiting hormone MIH_HOMAM. Two
partial matches were also found, both of which are hyperglycemic hormones
that fail to match motif 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 9 sequences, and 1
partial match.
