URICASE
Uricase is a peroxisomal enzyme that catalyses the oxidation of uric acid
to allantoin in most vertebrates, although it has been lost in humans and
some primates, birds and reptiles [1]. It is mainly localised in the liver,
where it forms a large electron-dense paracrystalline core in many
peroxisomes [2]. The enzyme exists as a tetramer of identical subunits, 
each of which has been thought to contain a possible type 2 copper-binding
site [1]. More recent evidence, however, suggests that the catalytically 
active enzyme does not in fact contain copper, or any other redox active
metal [3,4]. In legumes, 2 forms of uricase are found: in the roots, the
tetrameric form; and, in the uninfected cells of root nodules, a monomeric
form, which plays an important role in nitrogen-fixation [5].

URICASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for uricases.
The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the
motifs largely surround the active site - motif 1 encodes beta-strand 1;
motif 2 spans alpha-helix 2 and the N-terminus of helix 3, and includes the
active site threonine; motif 3 encompasses the C-terminus of helix 4 and the
N-terminus of strand strand 3; and motifs 4 and 5 span the C-terminus of
strand 7 and the following loop, which includes the region encoded by
PROSITE pattern URICASE (PS00366), which houses the two other active site
residues. Two iterations on OWL21.1 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 14 sequences was identified. Two partial 
matches were also found, both of which are fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 21 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
