PROFILIN
Profilin is a ubiquitous eukaryotic protein that plays an active role in
the regulation of actin polymerisation. It binds to both cytosolic actin
and the phospholipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate [1]: such 
competitive binding affinities suggest that profilin serves as a link
between the phosphatidyl inositol cycle and actin polymerisation, and
hence acts as an essential component in the signalling pathway leading to
cytoskeletal rearrangement.

Sequence similarity between profilins from different species is low, but
the  N-terminal region, which is thought to be involved in actin binding,
is relatively well conserved. Profilin folds into a single compact globular
domain, which is bisected by an extended anti-parallel beta-sheet. Two
alpha-helices (which include the N- and C-terminal residues) lie on the
convex face of the sheet, and 3 smaller helices lie on the concave face.

PROFILIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
profilins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 8
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length, motif 1 including the N-terminal region encoded by
PROSITE pattern PROFILIN (PS00414), which is thought to be involved in
actin binding. Two iterations on OWL26.0 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 25 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was also found, profilin II from
Dictyostelium, which fails to make significant matches with motifs 2 and 3.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 40 sequences, and 8
partial matches.
