ERLUMENR
Proteins resident in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contain a
C-terminal tetrapeptide (commonly Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu (KDEL) in mammals and 
His-Asp-Glu-Leu (HDEL) in yeast (S.cerevisiae)) that acts as a signal for
their retrieval from subsequent compartments of the secretory pathway. The
receptor for this signal is a ~26kDa Golgi membrane protein, initially
identified as the ERD2 gene product in S.cerevisiae. The receptor molecule, 
known variously as the ER lumen protein retaining receptor or the 'KDEL 
receptor', is believed to cycle between the cis side of the Golgi apparatus 
and the ER. It has also been characterised in a number of other species,
including plants, Plasmodium, Drosophila and mammals. In mammals, 2 highly
related forms of the receptor are known.

The KDEL receptor is a highly hydrophobic protein of 220 residues; its 
sequence exhibits 7 hydrophobic regions, all of which have been suggested
to traverse the membrane. More recently, however, it has been suggested
that only 6 of these regions are transmembrane (TM), resulting in both N-
and C-termini on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane.

ERLUMENR is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the KDEL 
receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 9 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motif 2 spans the C-terminal portion of the first
cytoplasmic loop leading into TM domain 2, and corresponds to the region
encoded by PROSITE pattern ER_LUMEN_RECEPTOR_1 (PS00951); motif 4 includes
a well-conserved decapeptide from the central portion of TM domain 5 
corresponding to the region encoded by PROSITE pattern ER_LUMEN_RECEPTOR_2 
(PS00952). A single iteration on OWL29.2 was required to reach convergence,
no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 14 sequences.
