GALANIN
Galanin is a 29 amino acid peptide hormone that controls various biological
activities [1]. Galanin-like immuno-reactivity has been found in the
central and peripheral nervous systems of mammals, with high concentrations
demonstrated in discrete regions of the central nervous system, including
the median eminence, hypothalamus, arcuate nucleus, septum, neuro-
intermediate lobe of the pituitary, and the spinal cord. Its localisation
within neurosecretory granules suggests that galanin may function as a
neurotransmitter, and it has been shown to coexist with a variety of other
peptide and amine neurotransmitters within individual neurons [2].

Although the precise physiological role of galanin is uncertain, it has a
number of pharmacological properties: it stimulates food intake, when 
injected into the third ventricle of rats; it increases levels of plasma
growth hormone and prolactin, and decreases dopamine levels in the median
eminence [2]; and infusion into humans results in hyperglycemia and glucose
intolerance, and inhibits pancreatic release of insulin, somatostatin and 
pancreatic peptide. Galanin also modulates smooth muscle contractility
within the gastro-intestinal and genito-urinary tracts, all such activities
suggesting that the hormone may play an important role in the nervous
modulation of endocrine and smooth muscle function [2].

GALANIN is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for galanins.
The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 sequences: the
motifs span virtually the full alignment length, motif 1 including the
region encoded by PROSITE pattern GALANIN (PS00861). Two iterations on
OWL22.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 7 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 11 sequences.
