GABAARECEPTR
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors are members of the neurotransmitter
ligand-gated ion channels: they mediate neuronal inhibition by opening 
chloride channels on binding GABA [1,2]. There are 5 classes of receptor
subunit (alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho), with variants in each class
[3]. Each subunit contains 4 proposed transmembrane (TM) domains, with a
large intracellular loop between the third and fourth domain. Active
receptors contain 5 subunits of varying classes and variants - the use
of highly similar receptor subtypes, which differ in functionality, is a
common feature of brain receptors [3].

The neurotransmitter action of the subtype A receptor (GABAA) is
potentiated by both benzodiazepines and barbiturates [3]. Alpha subunits
largely determine benzodiazepine binding properties [4], and gamma-2
subunits appear to be essential for benzodiazepine modulation of receptor
function [1]. In insects, cyclodiene (an insecticide) resistence is due to
insensitivity of the cyclodiene/picrotoxinin binding site on the GABAA
receptor-chloride ionophore complex [5].

GABAARECEPTR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for GABAA
receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 15
sequences: the motifs were drawn from the 4 putative TM regions. Two
iterations on OWL24.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 60 sequences was identified: these include a number of
glycine receptors, which are inhibitory chloride ion channels known to
share a high degree of similarity with the GABA receptors.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 113 sequences, and 10
partial matches.
