POUDOMAIN
Many proteins that regulate gene expression contain a 60 amino acid region 
known as the homeodomain. Some of these (e.g., Oct-1, Oct-2 and Pit-1) have
a bipartite DNA-binding region known as the POU domain, which contains the 
homeodomain and a POU-specific (Pit, Oct, Unc) domain [2] - this latter is 
a region of 70-75 amino acids found upstream of the homeobox. Such proteins
bind to specific DNA sequences to cause temporal and spatial regulation of 
the expression of genes, many of which are involved in the regulation of 
neuronal development in the central nervous system of mammals [2]. Some 
other genes are also regulated, including those for immunoglobulin light 
and heavy chains (Oct-2) [3], and trophic hormone genes, such as those for 
prolactin and growth hormone (Pit-1). Both elements of the POU-domain are 
required for high affinity sequence-specific DNA-binding. The domain may 
also be involved in protein-protein interactions [1]. The 3-D structure 
of the POU-domain has been determined by multidimensional NMR [4] and X-ray
crystallography to 3.0A resolution [5].

POUDOMAIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
POU-specific DNA-binding domain. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 10 sequences: motif 1 encodes residues 16-33 of the
domain and motif 2 encodes residues 42-55 (cf. PROSITE patterns POU_1
(PS00035) and POU_2 (PS00465)). Two iterations on OWL20.0 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 66 sequences was
identified. Four fragments were also found, all of which lack the portions
of sequence bearing the first and last motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 96 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
