LOLP1ALLERGN
Grass pollens are a major cause of type I allergy. Lol pI, the major rye
grass (Lolium perenne) allergen, is a 240-amino acid protein [1]. Analysis
of the amino acid sequence has revealed a determinant within the Lol pI 
molecule that is recognised by human leukocyte antigen class II-restricted
T cells obtained from patients allergic to rye grass pollen [1]. 

Sequence analysis of a pollen-specific cDNA from maize has revealed a
homologue (Zea mI) of the Lol pI gene [2]. The protein is ~70% similar to
the reported amino acid sequence of Lol pIA. Southern analysis indicates
Zea mI to be a member of a small multigene family in maize [2]. Northern
analysis indicates expression only in pollen, not in vegetative or female
floral tissues [2]. The timing of expression is developmentally regulated,
occurring at a low level prior to the first pollen mitosis, and at a high
level after post-meiotic division [2]. 

LOLP1ALLERGN is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Lol pI allergen proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise the Lol pI allergens but distinguish them from the
expansins. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 11 sequences was identified. Several
partial matches were also found: Q39802 is a cytokinin-induced message
protein from soybean, which matches all but motif 1; the rest appear to be
largely Lol p2 allergens.
