GLIADIN
Gluten is the protein component of wheat flour. It consists of numerous
proteins, which are of 2 different types responsible for different physical
properties of dough [1]: the glutenins, which are primarily responsible for
the elasticity, and the gliadins, which contribute to the extensibility.
The gliadins themselves are of different types (e.g., alpha/beta or gamma) 
and, like the glutenins, contain repetitive sequences [2] that form loose 
helical structures, but they are usually associated with more extensive 
non-repetitive regions, which are compact and globular [3]. 

GLIADIN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
alpha/beta gliadins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial align-
ment of 5 sequences: motifs 2 and 3 encode the Gln/Pro-rich tandem repeats.
Two iterations on OWL18.0 were required to reach convergence, at which 
point a true set comprising 14 sequences was identified. Several partial 
matches were also found: 3 of these are alpha/beta gliadin fragments: 
GDA1_WHEAT and B22364 both lack the C-terminal part of the sequence bearing
the last 2 motifs, and GDA8_WHEAT lacks the N-terminal part of the sequence
bearing the first 3 motifs.

In addition to the alpha/beta gliadin fragments, a number of other partial 
matches were identified: these included gamma-gliadins, low molecular 
weight glutenins, avenins, secalins, and so on. Most of these fail to 
match, or at least match only poorly, those motifs that encode the tandem 
repeats - clearly they are characterised by their own distinctive 
signatures in this region. The fingerprint thus provides reasonable 
discrimination between the alpha/beta type gliadins and the gamma type and 
related proteins.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 16 sequences, and 25
partial matches.
