MEVGALKINASE
Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains containing the erg8-1 mutation are 
temperature sensitive for growth due to a defect in phosphomevalonate 
kinase, an enzyme of isoprene and ergosterol biosynthesis [1]. Subcloning
and DNA sequencing have defined the functional ERG8 regulon as an 850bp 
upstream region and an adjacent 1,272bp open reading frame [1]. The deduced 
ERG8 protein contains 424 residues and shows no similarity to known proteins,
except within a putative ATP-binding domain present in many kinases [1].
Disruption studies have shown that the ERG8 gene is essential [1]. Its
expression in S.cerevisiae from the galactose-inducible galactokinase (GAL1)
promoter results in 1,000-fold-elevated levels of phosphomevalonate kinase
enzyme activity. 

Enzymes that share the N-terminal Gly/Ser-rich putative ATP-binding region
include: galactokinase, homoserine kinase, mevalonate kinase and phospho-
mevalonate kinase. 

MEVGALKINASE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
mevalonate and galactokinases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved 
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 2 includes the
region encoded by PROSITE pattern GHMP_KINASES_ATP (PS00627), which
describes the putative ATP-binding domain. Two iterations on OWL30.2 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 38
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of
which are fragments or homologues that fail to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 34 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
