GLUCAGON
Glucagon is a widely-distributed, 29-residue polypeptide hormone produced
in the alpha-cells of pancreatic islets [1]. It affects glucose metabolism 
in liver [2] by inhibiting glycogen synthesis, stimulating glycogenolysis 
and enchancing gluconeogenesis. It also increases mobilisation of glucose, 
free fatty acids and ketone bodies, which are metabolites produced in 
excess in diabetes mellitus.

Glucagon is produced, like other peptide hormones, as part of a larger 
precursor (preproglucagon), which is cleaved to produce glucagon, glucagon-
like protein I and glucagon-like protein II: the 2 different glucagon-like
proteins are structurally distinct [3]. The structure of glucagon itself is
fully conserved in all known mammalian species [1], and is a member of a
structurally similar group containing glucagon, glicentin precursor,
secretin, gastric inhibitory protein, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP),
prealbumin, peptide HI-27 and growth hormone releasing factor.

GLUCAGON is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
glucagon polypeptide hormone superfamily. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 10 sequences: the motifs span 12 well-conserved
N-terminal residues and an ajacent hydrophobic domain (cf. PROSITE pattern
GLUCAGON (PS00260)). Two iterations on OWL19.0 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 58 sequences was
identified: all belong to the glucagon superfamily and include glucagon,
glucagon-like peptide 1, glucagon-like peptide 2, gastric inhibitory
peptide, secretin, vasoactive intestinal protein, somatoliberin, and
exendins. Two extendins were not identified (EXE3_HELHO and EXE4_HELSU),
the sequences of which differ in the region encoded by motif 2 - they
nevertheless match strongly with motif 1.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 66 sequences.
