PAMONOXGNASE
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a multifunctional
protein found in secretory granules. The protein contains two enzymes that
act sequentially to catalyse the alpha-amidation of neuroendocrine peptides 
[1,2]: peptidylglycine + ascorbate + O(2) = peptidyl(2-hydroxyglycine) + 
dehydroascorbate + H(2)O. The product is unstable and dismutates to
glyoxylate and the corresponding desglycine peptide amide. The first step
of the reaction is catalysed by peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating mono-
oxygenase (PHM), and is dependent on copper, ascorbate and molecular oxygen;
peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) catalyses the
second step of the reaction [1]. 

Sequence analysis shows the protein to be similar to dopamine-beta-mono-
oxygenases (DBH), a class of ascorbate-dependent enzymes that requires
copper as a cofactor and uses ascorbate as an electron donor. PAM and DBH
share a few regions of sequence similarity, some of which contain clusters
of conserved histidine residues that may be involved in copper binding.

PAMONOXGNASE is 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenases. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning the intragranular domain - motif
2 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern CU2_MONOOXYGENASE_1
(PS00084), which contains conserved histidine residues that may be involved
in copper binding. Two iterations on OWL29.4 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 13 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which are
fragments and related sequences that fail to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 7 sequences, and 7
partial matches.
