LYZLACT
Lysozyme C and alpha-lactalbumin and are similar both in terms of primary 
sequence and structure, and probably evolved from a common ancestral 
protein. There is, however, no similarity in function as lactalbumin 
promotes the conversion of galactosyltransferase to lactose synthase and is
essential for milk production [1], while lysozyme catalyses the hydrolysis 
of bacterial cell wall polysaccharides; it has also been recruited for a 
digestive role in certain ruminants and colobine monkeys [2]. Another 
significant difference between the 2 enzymes is that all lactalbumins have 
the ability to bind calcium [3], while this property is restricted to only 
a few lysozymes [4]. The binding site was deduced using high resolution 
X-ray structure analysis and was shown to consist of 3 aspartic acid 
residues. It was first suggested that calcium bound to lactalbumin 
stabilised the structure, but recently it has been claimed that calcium 
controls the release of lactalbumin from the golgi membrane and that the 
pattern of ion binding may also affect the catalytic properties of the 
lactose synthetase complex.

LYZLACT is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
lysozyme/alpha-lactalbumin superfamily. The fingerprint was derived from 
an initial alignment of 12 sequences: motif 5 encodes the calcium binding 
region, and together with motif 4 contains 3 of the 8 cysteine residues 
conserved in both lysozymes and lactalbumins (cf. PROSITE pattern 
LACTALBUMIN_LYSOZYME (PS00128)). Two iterations on OWL10.1 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 81 sequences was 
identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 75 sequences, and 17
partial matches.
