GPCRSTE2
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

Little is known about the structure and function of the mating factor 
receptors, STE2 and STE3. It is believed, however, that they are integral
membrane proteins that may be involved in the response to mating factors 
on the cell membrane [2-4]. The amino acid sequences of both receptors 
contain high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 domains, 
in a manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to 
interact with G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been 
proposed to account for this, there is no significant sequence similarity
either between STE2 and STE3, or between these and the rhodopsin-type
family: the receptors thus bear their own unique '7TM' signatures.

GPCRSTE2 is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
STE2-type family of GPCRs. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs encode the 7 hydrophobic, putative
membrane-spanning regions. A single iteration on OWL21.1 was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the
starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
