P40PHOX
Phagocytes form the first line of defence against invasion by micro-
organisms. Engulfing of bacteria by neutrophils is accompanied by the
consumption of large amounts of oxygen - a so-called respiratory burst.
Defects in phagocytosis involving the lack of a respiratory burst give
rise to chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), in which patients are pre-
disposed to infection, often from otherwise non-pathogenic bacteria [1].

Regulation of the respiratory burst takes place at the phagocytic vacuole.
The process is mediated by NADPH oxidase, which transports electrons across
the plasma membrane to form superoxide (an oxygen molecule with an extra
electron that is toxic to normal cells) in the vacuole interior. The
electrons are carried across the membrane by a short electron transport
chain in the form of an unusual flavocytochrome b [1].

To conserve NADPH and avoid the toxic effects of superoxide, the oxidase 
remains inactive until it receives an appropriate stimulus. Activation
involves the participation of a number of cytosolic proteins, some of 
which attach to the flavocytochrome. P47phox, p67phox and p40phox are
specialised components of phagocytic cells. All contain SH3 domains, by
means of which they attach to proline-rich regions of other proteins. Upon
activation, p40phox translocates to the region of the plasma membrane
forming the phagocytic vacuole, where, with phosphorylated p47phox and
p67phox, it associates with hydrophilic regions of the flavocytochrome.

P40PHOX is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for neutrophil
cytosol factor p40 (p40phox). The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length. A single iteration on OWL27.0 was
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
