PRSTNOIDEP2R
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

Prostanoids (prostaglandins (PG) and thromboxanes (TX)) mediate a wide
variety of actions and play important physiological roles in the cardio-
vascular and immune systems, and in pain sensation in peripheral systems
[6]. PGI2 and TXA2 have opposing actions, involving regulation of the
interaction of platelets with the vascular endothelium, while PGE2, PGI2
and PGD2 are powerful vasodilators and potentiate the action of various
autocoids to induce plasma extravasation and pain sensation. To date,
evidence for at least 5 classes of prostanoid receptor has been obtained.
However, identification of subtypes and their distribution is hampered by
expression of more than one receptor within a tissue, coupled with poor
selectivity of available agonists and antagonists. 

EP2 receptors mediate vasodilation, bronchodilation and relaxation of
intestinal smooth muscle, and stimulate fluid secretion in the intestine 
[6]. The receptors activate adenylate cyclase through Gs [6].

PRSTNOIDEP2R is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
prostanoid EP2 receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections
within either loop or N- and C-terminal regions, focusing on those areas
of the alignment that characterise the prostanoid EP2 receptors but
distinguish them from the rest of the rhodopsin-like superfamily - motifs
1 and 2 span the N-terminus; motif 3 spans the first cytoplasmic loop; motif
4 lies in the first external loop; motifs 5 and 6 lie in the third
cytoplasmic loop; motif 7 spans the third external loop; and motif 8 lies
at the C-terminus. A single iteration on OWL28.0 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
