HATPASE
H+-Transporting ATPases (proton pumps) are the main ion pumps in the plasma
membrane and play a central role [1] in the physiology and bioenergetics of
plant cells. They are the primary active transporters of the plasma 
membrane and are responsible for generating the membrane potential that 
drives translocation of cations, amino-acids, sugars, and hormones, whilst
also contributing to the maintenance of intracellular and extracellular 
pH and cell turgor [2]. 

Proton pumps are members of the P-type (or E1-E2-type) cation-transporting
ATPase superfamily, which has evolved from a common ancestral gene [3]. The
sequences are believed to contain 8-10 transmembrane helices, some of which
are well conserved throughout the superfamily. They may thus all operate via
a similar mechanism, with an aspartylphosphoryl enzyme intermediate [4]
being formed during the catalytic cycle. 

HATPASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
H+-transporting ATPases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions in
the C-terminal half of the alignment. Two iterations on OWL19.1 were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 20 
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, largely
subsets of other cation-transporting ATPases: calcium-transporting ATPases
in general match only motifs 2-4, and sodium/potassium-transporting ATPases
tend to match motifs 2 and 3 (various potassium-transporting, magnesium-
transporting, and plasma membrane isoforms of calcium-transporting ATPases
also match just 2 motifs).

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 40 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
