NACHANNEL
Voltage-dependent sodium channels are transmembrane (TM) proteins
responsible for the depolarising phase of the action potential in most
electrically excitable cells [1]. They may exist in 3 states [3]: the
resting state, where the channel is closed; the activated state, where the
channel is open; and the inactivated state, where the channel is closed
and refractory to opening. Several different structurally and functionally
distinct isoforms are found in mammals, coded for by a multigene family
[4], these being responsible for the different types of sodium ion currents
found in excitable tissues.

The structure of sodium channels is based on 4 internal repeats of a 6-helix
bundle [2] (in which 5 of the membrane-spanning segments are hydrophobic and
the other is positively charged), forming a 24-helical bundle. The charged
segments are believed to be localised within clusters formed by their 5 
hydrophobic neighbours: it is postulated that the charged domain may be the
voltage sensor region, possibly moving outward on depolarisation, causing a 
conformational change. This model, proposed by Noda et al. [2], contrasts
with that of Sato and Matsumoto [5], in which the TM segments are juxtaposed
octagonally. The basic structural motif (the 6-helix bundle) is also found
in potassium and calcium channel alpha subunits.

NACHANNEL is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for voltage-
gated Na+ channel alpha subunits. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 34 sequences: motif 1 lies on the sixth TM domain, of
the fourth internal repeat; and motif 2 encodes a portion of the putative 
cytoplasmic C-terminus. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 49 sequences was
identified.
