SECYTRNLCASE
The preprotein translocase system of bacteria is a complex of 7 proteins
(the products of genes secA-F and secY) essential for the translocation of
exocytoplasmic proteins across the membrane [2]. The secY gene product is
an integral membrane protein that plays a central role in the protein
secretion system [1]. It is believed to have 10 transmembrane (TM), 6 
cytoplasmic and 5 periplasmic regions, and interacts with the secA and
secE gene products to form a membrane channel that allows protein export.

Cytoplasmic regions 2 and 3, and TM domains 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 10 are well
conserved: the conserved cytoplasmic regions are believed to interact with
cytoplasmic secretion factors, while the TM domains may participate in
protein export [1]. Similar proteins are also found in archaebacteria and
the chloroplasts of some algae, where they could be involved in the export
of proteins across the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum.

SECYTRNLCASE is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
secY subunit of the preprotein translocase system. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: motifs 1-3 span TM
domains 1-3; motifs 4 and 5 include TM regions 4 and 5 and the intervening
cytoplasmic loop; and motifs 6-9 span TM domains 7-10 - motifs 2, 4 and 5
include the regions encoded by PROSITE patterns SECY_1 (PS00755) and SECY_2
(PS00756). Two iterations on OWL23.2 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 15 sequences was identified. Several
partial matches were also found: SECY_CHLTR is a fragment; SECY_HALMA and
SECY_METVA are secY gene products that show little similarity to the rest
of the family; and A44170 and SC61_YEAST are sec61p proteins, which have a
similar function to secY proteins.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 40 sequences, and 9
partial matches.
