ADRENODOXIN
Adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin and terpredoxin are soluble 2Fe-2S iron-sulphur
proteins that act as single electron carriers. In mitochondrial 
monooxygenase systems, adrenodoxin transfers an electron from 
NADPH:adrenodoxin reductase to membrane-bound P450 [1]. In bacteria, 
putidaredoxin and terpredoxin serve as electron carriers between 
corresponding NADH-dependent ferredoxin reductases and soluble P450 [2,3]. 
The exact functions of other members of this family are not known.

The 3D structure of putidaredoxin has been solved by NMR [4]. Despite low
sequence similarity between putidaredoxin and 2Fe-2S ferredoxins,
putidaredoxin retains a similar folding topology to structurally 
characterised 2Fe-2S ferredoxins. The fold belongs to the alpha + beta
class, with 3 helices and 6 strands forming a barrel-like structure, and an
extruded loop containing 3 of the 4 cysteinyl residues of the iron-sulphur
cluster.

ADRENODOXIN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
adrenodoxins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 13
sequences: motif 1 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern ADX
(PS00814), the 3 conserved cysteines of which are 2Fe-2S ligands; motif 2
contains a cluster of negatively charged residues, which is essential for
binding both the reductase and P450 [5]; and motif 3 includes the fourth
conserved Cys of the 2Fe-2S cluster. Two iterations on OWL25.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 15
sequences was identified. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 22 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
