TMPROTEINSRG
Animals recognise a wide variety of chemicals using their senses of taste
and smell. The nematode C.elegans has only 14 types of chemosensory neuron,
yet is able to respond to dozens of chemicals because each neuron detects
several stimuli. More than 40 highly divergent transmembrane proteins that
could contribute to this functional diversity have been described [1]. Most
of the candidate receptor genes are in clusters of similar genes; 11 of 
these appear to be expressed in small subsets of chemosensory neurons. A
single type of neuron can potentially express at least 4 different receptor
genes [1]. Some of these might encode receptors for water-soluble
attractants, repellents and pheromones, which may be divergent members
of the G protein-coupled receptor family [1].

Sequences of the srg family of C.elegans receptor-like proteins contain
7 hydrophobic, putative transmembrane, regions. These can be distinguished
from other 7TM proteins (especially those known to couple G proteins) by
their own characteristic TM signatures.

TMPROTEINSRG is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
C.elegans srg family of integral membrane proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 10 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from the putative TM regions. A single iteration on OWL29.1 was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting
set. Several partial matches were found: these include family members that
contain insertions within the putative TM domains; a number of fragments;
and other closely related C.elegans TM proteins.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 12 sequences, and 10
partial matches.
