STEFINA
Stefin A is a member of the cystatin superfamily, which are tight,
reversibly-binding inhibitors of the papain-like cysteine proteases [1].
The inhibitors are involved in the control mechanism responsible for
protein breakdown, and are thought to help protect cells from inappropriate
endogenous or external proteolysis [2]. 

The cystatin superfamily comprises 3 families: the stefins, cystatins 
and kininogens. The stefin family includes proteins that lack disulphide 
bonds and carbohydrates. The most abundant source of stefin A is poly-
morphonuclear leucocytes from the liver, but it is also found in extracts
of squamous epithelia from the mouth and oesophagus, and has been localised
to the cytoplasm of the strata corneum and granulosum of the epidermis. The
selective distribution of the inhibitor correlates with tissues that
constitute a "first line of defence" against pathogenic organisms. Stefin A
may thus provide a protective function as an inhibitor of cysteine
proteases utilised as invasive tools by many infectious agents [1].

The structure of stefin A contains a 5-stranded anti-parallel beta-sheet,
wrapped around a central helix. The loops formed between the strands are
involved in inhibitor binding, one of these containing a QVVAG sequence,
which is highly conserved in most members of the cystatin superfamily [2].

STEFINA is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for stefins.
The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the
motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full alignment
length, motifs 2 and 3 encompassing the region encoded by PROSITE pattern
CYSTATIN (PS00287), which contains the conserved QVVAG motif implicated in
protease binding. Two iterations on OWL25.2 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 11 sequences was
identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 18 sequences, and 1
partial match.
