CALSEQUESTRN
Calsequestrin is the principal calcium-binding protein present in the
sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac and skeletal muscle [1]. It is a highly 
acidic protein, able to bind over 40 calcium ions, and acts as an internal
calcium store in muscle. Sequence analysis has suggested that calcium is
not bound in distinct pockets via EF-hand motifs, but rather via 
presentation of a charged protein surface [1]. Two forms of calsequestrin
have been identified: the cardiac form, present in cardiac and slow
skeletal muscle; and the fast skeletal form, found in fast skeletal muscle
[1]. The release of calsequestrin-bound calcium (through a a calcium
release channel) triggers muscle contraction.

Circular dichroism and intrinsic fluorescence spectroscopy studies have
shown that the active protein is not highly structured, more than 50% of
it adopting a random coil conformation [2]. It has been further 
demonstrated that calcium binding results in a structural change, whereby
the alpha-helical content of the protein increases from 3 to 11% [2].
Both forms of calsequestrin are phosphorylated by casein kinase II, but
the cardiac form is phosphorylated more rapidly and to a higher degree [3].

CALSEQUESTRN is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
calsequestrin. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length - motif 1 includes the N-terminal region encoded
by PROSITE pattern CALSEQUESTRIN_1 (PS00863); motif 7 spans a calcium-
regulated hydrophobic site; and motif 10 includes the C-terminal region
encoded by PROSITE pattern CALSEQUESTRIN_2 (PS00864), which is located
just before the highly-acidic, variable length tail. Two iterations on
OWL24.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 6 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 11 sequences, and 1
partial match.
