ERMFAMILY
The ERM family consists of three closely related proteins: ezrin, radixin
and moesin [1]. Ezrin was first identified as a constituent of microvilli
[2], radixin as a barbed, end-capping actin-modulating protein from 
isolated junctional fractions [3], and moesin as a heparin binding protein 
[4]. A tumour suppressor molecule responsible for neurofibromatosis type 2
(NF2) is highly similar to ERM proteins and has been designated merlin 
(moesin-ezrin-radixin-like protein). 

ERM molecules contain 3 domains: an N-terminal globular domain; an extended
alpha-helical domain; and a charged C-terminal domain [1]. Ezrin, radixin
and merlin also contain a polyproline region between the helical and
C-terminal domains. The N-terminal domain is highly conserved, and is also
found in merlin, band 4.1 proteins and members of the band 4.1 superfamily.

ERM proteins crosslink actin filaments with plasma membranes [1]. They co-
localise with CD44 at actin filament-plasma membrane interaction sites, 
associating with CD44 via their N-terminal domains and with actin filaments
via their C-terminal domains [1]. 

ERMFAMILY is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
ERM family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 9 
sequences: motifs 1-6 were drawn from the N-terminal domain, motif 2
spanning part of the region encoded by PROSITE pattern BAND_41_1 (PS00660);
and motifs 7 and 8 were drawn from the C-terminal domain. Two iterations on 
OWL29.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 18 sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also
found, all of which are either fragments or ERM family homologues (e.g.,
including merlin and a number of band 4.1 proteins). 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 18 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
