SYNAPTOBREVN
Synaptic vesicles are specialised secretory organelles of neurons that
actively accumulate neurotransmitters and participate in their calcium-
dependent release by exocytosis [1]. Vesicle function is mediated by 
proteins in their membranes, although the precise nature of the protein-
protein interactions underlying this are still uncertain [1]. Synapto-
brevins, synaptic vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs), are small
integral membrane proteins specific to neuron synaptic vesicles.

Synaptobrevin and related proteins, VAMP-1 and SNC1, consist of a short
non-conserved N-terminal region rich in proline, glycine and asparagine;
a well-conserved central hydrophilic cytoplasmic core of about 80 residues
[2]; a single C-terminal membrane anchor; and a short, variable C-terminal
intravesicular region [1]. The high degree of sequence similarity in
synaptobrevin, and its abundance in synaptic vesicle membranes, suggests a
basic role in the molecular events underlying neurotransmitter release and
vesicle recycling [1]. The protein may also play a role in regulating
membrane flow in the nerve terminal, a process mediated by interaction
with low molecular weight GTP-binding proteins [2].

SYNAPTOBREVN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
synaptobrevins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
5 sequences: motifs 1 and 2 were drawn from the charged central core, and
span the region encoded by PROSITE pattern SYNAPTOBREVIN (PS00417); and
motif 3 spans the C-terminal transmembrane anchor. Two iterations on
OWL23.2 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 13 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, SMIMP25, an integral membrane protein from Schistosoma mansoni
lacking a match with motif 1.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 37 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
