LIPOLIPASE
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is a key enzyme of lipid metabolism that hydrolyses
triglycerides, providing free fatty acids for cells and affecting the 
maturation of circulating lipoproteins [1]. The enzyme is thought to play
a role in the development of obesity and atherosclerosis [1]. Human LPL
contains 448 amino acids; sequence comparison indicates that human LPL,
hepatic lipase, and pancreatic lipase are members of a gene family [1]. 

Defects in LPL are a cause of familial chylomicronemia syndrome (or type I
hyperlipoproteinemia) and also of a form of deficiency characterised by
hypertriglyceridemia. Familial chylomicronemia is a recessive disorder
usually manifesting in childhood. On a normal diet, patients often present
with abdominal pain, hepatosplenomegaly, lipemia retinalis, eruptive
xanthomata, and massive hypertriglyceridemia, sometimes complicated with
acute pancreatitis.

LPL and pancreatic lipase share ~30% sequence identity, suggesting a similar
tertiary fold [3]. Molecular models of LPL have been constructed, based on 
X-ray crystal structures of pancreatic lipase [2]. These models allowed the
authors to propose hypotheses on the structural determinants of LPL that are
responsible for heparin binding, dimer formation, and phospholipase activity. 

LIPOLIPASE is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
lipoprotein lipases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections spanning the
full alignment length, focusing on those regions that characterise the LPLs
but distinguish them from the rest of the lipase family. Two iterations on
OWL30.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 10 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, a partial lipase sequence from the zebrafish that matches motifs 4,
5, 6 and 8. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 10 sequences.
