V5TPXLIKE
A number of eukaryotic extracellular proteins have been shown to be
evolutionarily related. The family includes rodent sperm-coating glyco-
protein (or acidic epididymal glycoprotein), which is thought to be involved
in sperm maturation [1]; mammalian testis-specific protein (Tpx-1) [2];
mammalian glioma pathogenesis-related protein; lizard helothermine, a toxin
that blocks ryanodine receptors; venom allergen 5 from vespid wasps and
venom allergen 3 from fire ants, which are potent allergens that mediate
allergic reactions to stings from insects of the hymenoptera family [3];
plant pathogenesis proteins of the PR-1 family [4], which are synthesised
during pathogen infection or other stress-related responses; proteins Sc7
and Sc14 from the basidiomycete fungus Schizophyllum commune, which are
loosely associated with fruiting body hyphal walls [5]; ancylostoma secreted
protein from dog hookworm; and yeast hypothetical proteins YJL078c, YJL079c
and YKR013w. The precise functions of these proteins is still unclear.

V5TPXLIKE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
allergen V5/Tpx-1 family of extracellular proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 13 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from short conserved regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment -
motif 3 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern SCP_AG5_PR1_SC7_1
(PS01009); and motif 4 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern
SCP_AG5_PR1_SC7_2 (PS010010), which contains a Cys residue known to be
involved in disulphide bond formation in Ag5. Three iterations on OWL30.0
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 86
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, most of
which are uncharacterised sequences from the C.elegans genome.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 95 sequences, and 21
partial matches.
