2FE2SFRDOXIN
Ferredoxins [1,2] are iron-sulphur proteins that mediate electron transfer
in a range of metabolic reactions; they fall into several subgroups
according to the nature of their iron-sulphur cluster(s). One group,
originally found in chloroplast membranes, has been termed "chloroplast-
type" or "plant-type". Here, the active centre is a 2Fe-2S cluster, where
the irons are tetrahedrally coordinated by both inorganic sulphurs and
sulphurs provided by 4 conserved Cys residues [3], as shown in the
following scheme:

                        |   Cys308 |
                        \_____x___/  /
                              |     /
                             HS     |
                              :  H  |
                   \      S''Fe..S--x Cys280  
                    |      :   :     |
             Cys272 x--S...Fe..S     |   
                    |  H   :         |
                    |      SH        |
                    |      |         /
                    \______x________/
                          Cys277
                               
In chloroplasts, 2Fe-2S ferredoxins function as electron carriers in the
photosynthetic electron transport chain and as electron donors to various
cellular proteins, such as nitrate reductase, sulphite reductase and
glutamate synthase [4]. In hydroxylating bacterial dioxygenase systems,
they serve as intermediate electron-transfer carriers between reductase
flavoproteins and oxygenase [2].

Several oxidoreductases contain redox domains similar to 2Fe-2S
ferredoxins, including ferredoxin/ferredoxin reductase components of
several bacterial aromatic di- and monooxygenases, phenol hydroxylase,
methane monooxygenase, vanillate demethylase oxidoreductase, phthalate
dioxygenase reductase, bacterial fumarate reductase iron-sulphur protein,
eukaryotic succinate dehydrogenase and xanthine dehydrogenase. 

3D structures are known for a number of 2Fe-2S ferredoxins [3] and for
the ferredoxin reductase/ferredoxin fusion protein phthalate dioxygenase
reductase [5]. The fold belongs to the alpha + beta class, with 3 helices
and 4 strands forming a barrel-like structure, and an extruded loop
containing 3 of the 4 cysteinyl residues of the iron-sulphur cluster.

2FE2SFRDOXIN is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
plant ferredoxins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment 
of 25 sequences: the motifs span the region encoded by PROSITE pattern
2FE2S_FERREDOXIN (PS00197), which contains 3 of the 4 Cys residues of the
cluster. Two iterations on OWL25.2 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 126 sequences was identified. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 86 sequences.
