GALANINR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine,
paracrine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship,
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family. 

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of 
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

Galanin is a neurotransmitter in the peripheral and central nervous systems
with a wide spectrum of activity [6]. In the periphery, galanin inhibits
glucose-induced insulin release and may be the sympathetic mediator of this
effect during stress. In the CNS, it inhibits firing of locus coeruleus
cells, is synergistic with opiates in inducing analgesia at the level of the
spinal cord, and stimulates feeding behaviour and release of growth hormone
[6]. Its ability to inhibit acetylcholine release in the hippocampus has led
to the suggestion that galanin antagonists may be of use in the treatment of
Alzheimer's disease. 

Galanin receptors are expressed abundantly in a wide range of CNS and
peripheral tissues, mirroring the distribution of galanin. Three receptor
subtypes have been identified, differing from one another in terms of their 
expression patterns, affinity for various peptide analogues and G protein-
coupling specificity [7]. All are capable of activating K+ channels by
coupling to G proteins of the Gi/Go class [8].

GALANINR is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
galanin receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 
9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections within either 
loop or TM regions, focusing on those areas of the alignment that 
characterise the galanin receptors but distinguish them from the rest of the
rhodopsin-like superfamily - motifs 1 and 2 span the first external loop;
motif 3 spans part of the second cytoplasmic loop, leading into TM domain 4;
motif 4 spans the C-terminal portion of the second external loop and part of
TM domain 5; and motif 5 spans the C-terminal portion of the third external
loop. Two iterations on SPTR39_14f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 10 sequences was identified. Two partial
matches were also found: Q62828 is a rat galanin receptor N-terminal
fragment that fails to match the 3 C-terminal motifs; and Q9U721 is a 
Drosophila allatostatin receptor, closely related to the galanin receptors, which 
which matches motifs 1 and 3.
