TRNASYNTHALA
Appropriate attachment of an amino acid to its cognate tRNA is the key to
faithful translation of the genetic code. The family of enzymes responsible
for this is the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (AATRSs) (EC 6.1.1.-).

AATRSs catalyse a two-step reaction:

(1) Enzyme + amino acid + ATP ---> Enzyme(aminoacyl-AMP) + PPi

(2) tRNA + Enzyme(aminoacyl-AMP) ---> aminoacyl-tRNA + AMP + Enzyme

In the first step, they form an aminoacyl-adenylate, in which the carboxyl
of the amino acid is linked to the alpha-phosphate of ATP, by displacing
the pyrophosphate. When the correct tRNA is bound, the aminoacyl group is
transferred to the 2'- or 3'-terminal OH of the tRNA at the expense of AMP
[1].

Based on structural and sequence comparisons, this group of at least 20
proteins (in prokaryotes there are approximately 20, but in eukaryotes
there are usually 2 forms for each amino acid; namely, the cytosolic and
mitochondrial forms) can be divided into two classes.

Class I AATRSs contain a characteristic Rossman fold and are mostly
monomeric. At the primary structure level, two highly-conserved motifs
are observed 'HIGH' and 'KMSKS' [2,3]; these are associated with the ATP-
binding site.

Class II AATRSs share an anti-parallel beta-sheet formation, flanked by
alpha-helices [3], and are mostly dimeric or multimeric.

Further distinction between the two classes is evident when the reaction
mechanisms are investigated. In reactions catalysed by the class I AATRSs,
the aminoacyl group is coupled to the 2'-hydroxyl of the tRNA, while, in
class II reactions, the 3'-hydroxyl site is preferred.

Alanyl-tRNA synthetase (EC 6.1.1.7) is specific to alanine and belongs to 
class II.

TRNASYNTHALA is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
alanyl-tRNA synthetases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from the N-terminal half 
of the alignment - motif 2 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern
AA_TRNA_LIGASE_II_2 (PS00339). Three iterations on OWL30.2 were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 27 sequences 
was identified. A single partial match was also found, CEU41660, a small
AATRS-like protein that lacks motifs 4 and 5.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 26 sequences, and 1
partial match.
