MONELLINB
Monellin is an intensely sweet-tasting protein derived from African berries.
The protein has a very high specificity for the sweet receptors, making it
~100,000 times sweeter than sugar on a molar basis and several thousand 
times sweeter on a weight basis [1]. Like the sweet-tasting protein
thaumatin, it neither contains carbohydrates nor modified amino acids [1].
Although there is no sequence similarity between the proteins, antibodies
for thaumatin compete for monellin (and other sweet compounds, but not for 
chemically modified non-sweet monellin) and vice versa [1]. It is thought
that native conformations are important for the sweet taste.

Monellin is a heterodimer, comprising an A chain of 44 amino acid residues, 
and a B chain of 50 residues [2]. The individual subunits are not sweet, 
nor do they block the sweet sensation of sucrose or monellin. However, 
blocking the single SH of monellin abolishes its sweetness, as does reaction 
of its methionyl residue with CNBr [2]. The cysteinyl and methionyl residues
are adjacent, and it has therefore been suggested that this part of the 
molecule is essential for its sweetness [3]. 

The structure of monellin belongs to the alpha/beta class, a 5-stranded
beta-sheet sequestering a single alpha-helix. The B chain contributes 2
strands to the sheet and provides the helix.

MONELLINB is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
monellin B chain. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 2 sequences: the motifs span the full chain length - motif 1 encompasses
the first small strand and the N-terminal portion of the helix; motif 2
spans the C-terminal part of the helix; and motif 3 spans the second strand,
which includes the reactive cysteinyl and methionyl residues. A single
iteration on OWL29.0 was required to reach convergence, no further sequences
being identified beyond the starting point.

An update on OWL31_3 identified a true set of 2 sequences.
