GALLIDERMIN
Lantibiotics are heavily-modified bacteriocin-like peptides from Gram-
positive bacteria [1]. They contain alpha,beta-unsaturated amino acids
(dehydroalanine and dehydrobutyrine) and lanthionine or 3-methyllanthionine
rings (collectively known as thioether rings). There are 2 types of
lantibiotic: type A (which include nisin, subtilin, epidermin, gallidermin
and Pep5) are strongly cationic and bactericidal - nisin, subtilin and Pep5
inhibit the growth of Gram-positive bacteria, probably by voltage-dependent
pore formation in the cytoplasmic membrane, resulting in cellular efflux of
electrolytes, amino acids and ATP; type B lantibiotics possess at most one
positive charge and are not bactericidal. Nisin, subtilin, epidermin and
gallidermin are likely to have evolved from a common ancestor [2].

The sequences of lantibiotics do not adopt regular secondary structures 
(i.e., alpha-helices and beta-strands) because of their constituent
thioether rings (4 are found in gallidermin). Nevertheless, the rings
may be important in providing rigid local structures, which could be
essential for pore formation in membranes [3,4]. Solution NMR indicates
gallidermin to have a similar structure to nisin in the region of its
first 2 lanthionine rings [5].

GALLIDERMIN is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
gallidermin/epidermin type of lantibiotics. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs span the full
alignment length. A single iteration on OWL23.1 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 4 sequences.
