BETAAMYLASE
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC 3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition
of up to 60 different families [1-4] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/cgi-bin/lists?
glycosid.txt).

Family 14 encompasses the beta-amylases [5]. These are bacterial or plant
enzymes that hydrolyse 1,4-alpha-glucosidic linkages in starch-type 
polysaccharides, removing successive maltose units from the non-reducing
ends of the chains. 

The 3D structure of a complex of soybean beta-amylase with an inhibitor 
(alpha-cyclodextrin) has been determined to 3.0A resolution by X-ray
diffraction [6]. The enzyme folds into large and small domains: the large
domain has a (beta alpha)8 super-secondary structural core, while the smaller
is formed from two long loops extending from the beta-3 and beta-4 strands
of the (beta alpha)8 fold [6]. The interface of the two domains, together
with shorter loops from the (beta alpha)8 core, form a deep cleft, in which 
the inhibitor binds [6]. Two maltose molecules also bind in the cleft,
one sharing a binding site with alpha-cyclodextrin, and the other sitting
more deeply in the cleft [6].

BETAAMYLASE is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
beta-amylases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 spans beta-strand 2 and the
third alpha-helix; motif 2 encodes helix 4; motif 3 spans the C-terminus of
strand 3, together with strands 4 and 5, and includes the region encoded by
PROSITE patterns BETA_AMYLASE_1 (PS00506), which contains a catalytically-
important aspartate [5]; motif 4 spans helices 10 and 11, and includes the
the region encoded by PROSITE patterns BETA_AMYLASE_2 (PS00679), which
contains a catalytically-important glutamate [2]; motif 5 spans helix 14 and
the N-terminus of helix 15; motifs 6 and 7 include strand 9 and helix 16
respectively; motif 8 spans helix 17 and strand 10; and motif 9 includes
helix 20 and strand 11. Two iterations on OWL29.3 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 21 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was found, AMYB_SECCE, a beta-amylase
fragment that matches the final 3 motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 20 sequences.
