GPCRSECRETIN
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The secretin-like GPCRs include secretin [2], calcitonin [3], parathyroid
hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptides [4] and vasoactive intestinal
peptide [5], all of which activate adenylyl cyclase and the phosphatidyl-
inositol-calcium pathway. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 domains, in a
manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to inter-
act with G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been
proposed to account for this, there is no significant sequence similarity
between these families: the secretin-like receptors thus bear their own
unique '7TM' signature.

GPCRSECRETIN is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
secretin-like GPCR superfamily. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs encode the 7 hydrophobic, membrane-
spanning regions (cf. PROSITE pattern PS00650 G_PROTEIN_RECEP_F2_2). A 
single iteration on OWL17.0 was required to reach convergence, no further
sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 59 sequences, and 15
partial matches.
