PLANTGLOBIN
Leghaemoglobins are haem-proteins, first identified in root nodules of
leguminous plants: their physiological role involves fixation of 
atmospheric nitrogen, formed symbiotically in the nodules by the bacteria
Rhizobium [1]. The structure of leghaemoglobins is similar to that of
haemoglobins and myoglobins, although there is little sequence conservation
[1]. The protein is largely alpha-helical, eight helices providing the
scaffold for a well-defined haem-binding pocket [1]. By contrast with the
tetrameric mammalian globin assembly, the plant form is monomeric [2]. 

The structural similarity of leghaemoglobins and haemoglobins has suggested
a common evolutionary origin. It was thought that haemoglobins may be found
in plants other than legumes [2], and indeed globins have now been
identified in the roots of non-leguminous plants, where they have a role
in respiratory metabolism in the root cells [2].

PLANTGLOBIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
plant globins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 7 sequences: motif 1 includes helix A; motif 2 contains part of helix B
and helix C; motif 3 includes helix E and corresponds to the region encoded
by PROSITE pattern PLANT_GLOBIN (PS00208), the conserved His of which is 
one of the iron ligands; and motif 4 contains part of helix G and helix H 
(structural studies show that various residues from motifs 2-4 interact 
with the haem group). Four iterations on SPTR55_38f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 101 sequences was 
identified. Eight partial matches were also found, all of which are family
members that fail to make signficant matches with one or more motifs.
