POTATOINHBTR
Severe leaf damage to potato or tomato plants initiates the synthesis of
2 serine protease inhibitors throughout the plant, this systemic response
being triggered by the release of a putative plant hormone [1]. The
inhibitors (designated type I and II) are also synthesised in potato
tubers, increasing in concentration as the tuber develops. The family is
widely distributed throughout nature: it includes type I potato inhibitor
analogues such as leech eglin [2], barley endosperm chymotrypsin inhibitor
[3], and trypsin inhibitor from pumpkin. As such, it is the only family of
protease inhibitor found in both plant and animal species [1]. In general,
the proteins have retained a specificity towards chymotrypsin-like and
elastase-like proteases [1].

The inhibitor is a small wedge-shaped molecule, its pointed edge formed by 
the protease-binding loop, which contains the scissile bond [2]. The loop
binds tightly to the protease active site, subsequent cleavage of the
scissile bond causing inhibition of the enzyme [2].

POTATOINHBTR is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
type I potato inhibitors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 9 sequences: motif 1 includes the region encoded by PROSITE
pattern POTATO_INHIBITOR (PS00285), and motifs 2 and 3 each contain part
of the protease binding loop. Three iterations on OWL22.1 were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 35 sequences
was identified. A single partial match was also found, TOMPROI, a potato
inhibitor I-like protein fragment from tomato.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 23 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
