LEURICHRPT
Leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) are relatively short motifs (22-28 residues
in length) found in a variety of cytoplasmic, membrane and extracellular 
proteins [1]. Although these proteins are associated with widely different
functions, a commmon property involves protein-protein interaction. Little
is known about the 3D structure of LRRs, although it is believed that they
can form amphipathic structures with hydrophobic surfaces capable of 
interacting with membranes [3]. In vitro studies of a synthetic LRR from
Drosophila Toll protein have indicated that the peptides form gels by
adopting beta-sheet structures that form extended filaments. These results
are consistent with the idea that LRRs mediate protein-protein interactions
and cellular adhesion [4]. Other functions of LRR-containing proteins 
include, for example, binding to enzymes [5] and vascular repair [6]. The
3-D structure of ribonuclease inhibitor, a protein containing 15 LRRs, has
been determined [7], revealing LRRs to be a new class of alpha/beta fold. 

LEURICHRPT is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
leucine-rich repeats in a variety of protein families. The fingerprint 
was derived from an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs span the 
full LRR motif. Five iterations on OWL20.0 were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 83 sequences was 
identified. It should be stressed, however, that the LRRs are highly 
divergent and occur in such diverse proteins that absolute definition of 
an LRR 'superfamily' [2] is difficult - this result is therefore intended 
primarily as a guide.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 129 sequences.
