MYELINPLP
The myelin sheath is a multi-layered membrane, unique to the nervous system,
that functions as an insulator to greatly increase the velocity of axonal
impulse conduction [1]. Myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) is the major
protein found in the sheath of central nervous system nerves [2]. It spans
the membrane 4 times [3] and is thought to play a role in the formation or
maintenance of the multi-lamellar structure. The protein contains several
cysteine residues, some involved in the formation of disulphide bonds,
others being palmitoylated [2]. Mutations in PLP result in neurological
disorders, such as Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease in humans, 'jimpy' in
mice, and 'shaking pup' in dogs.

MYELINPLP is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for myelin 
proteolipid proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 4 sequences: motifs 1, 2, 5 and 7 encode the 4 transmembrane (TM)
domains - motif 4 includes the region encoded by PROSITE pattern MYELIN_
PLP_1 (PS00575), which is located between the second and third TM segments
and contains 2 Cys residues that are palmitoylated; motif 7 includes part
of the region encoded by PROSITE pattern MYELIN_PLP_2 (PS01004). Two
iterations on OWL23.2 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 9 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are either deletion mutants or myelin PLP
fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 8 sequences, and 9
partial matches.
