11SGLOBULIN
Plant seed storage proteins that provide the major nitrogen source for
developing plants may be classified into a number of different families.
The 11-S family are non-glycosylated proteins that form hexameric
structures [1,2]. Each of the constituent subunits comprises an acidic and
a basic chain derived from a single precursor and linked by a disulphide
bond. Members of the 11-S family include pea and broad bean legumins; rape
cruciferin; rice glutelins; cotton beta-globulins; soybean glycinins;
pumpkin 11-S globulin; oat globulin; and so on.

11SGLOBULIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
11-S family of plant seed storage proteins. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the basic, C-terminal portion of the alignment,
motif 1 including the region encoded by PROSITE pattern 11S_SEED_STORAGE
(PS00305), which contains both the cleavage site between the acidic and
basic chains, and the proximal Cys involved in interchain disulphide bond
formation. Three iterations on OWL26.0 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 90 sequences was identified. Twenty
partial matches were also found, all of which are fragments and related
plant storage proteins. 

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 197 sequences.
Numerous partial matches were also found, all of which are related plant
storage proteins and translated genomic sequences that fail to match one or
more motifs.
