PRSTNOIDFPR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

Prostanoids (prostaglandins (PG) and thromboxanes (TX)) mediate a wide
variety of actions and play important physiological roles in the cardio-
vascular and immune systems, and in pain sensation in peripheral systems
[6]. PGI2 and TXA2 have opposing actions, involving regulation of the
interaction of platelets with the vascular endothelium, while PGE2, PGI2
and PGD2 are powerful vasodilators and potentiate the action of various
autocoids to induce plasma extravasation and pain sensation. To date,
evidence for at least 5 classes of prostanoid receptor has been obtained.
However, identification of subtypes and their distribution is hampered by
expression of more than one receptor within a tissue, coupled with poor
selectivity of available agonists and antagonists. 

FP receptors mediate contraction in a wide range of smooth muscle, including
intraocular, myomretrial and bronchial tissues, and are potent stimulants of
luteolysis [6]. The receptors activate the phosphoinositide pathway through
a pertussis-toxin-insensitive G protein, probably of the Gq/G11 class [6].

PRSTNOIDFPR is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
prostanoid FP receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections
within either loop or N- and C-terminal regions, focusing on those areas of 
the alignment that characterise the prostanoid FP receptors but distinguish
them from the rest of the prostanoid receptor family - motifs 1 and 2 span
the N-terminus; motif 3 spans the first cytoplasmic loop, leading into TM
domain 2; motifs 4 and 5 span the second external loop, leading into TM
domain 5; motif 6 spans the third cytoplasmic loop; motif 7 spans the third
external loop; and motifs 8 and 9 reside at the C-terminus. Two iterations
on OWL29.6 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 6 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found,
both of which are prostanoid FP receptor fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 5 sequences.
