PHOTSYSPSAAB
Photosystem I, a membrane complex found in plant and cyanobacteria
chloroplasts, uses light energy to transfer electrons from plastocyanin
to ferredoxin [1]. The electron transfer components of the photosystem 
include the primary electron donor chlorophyll P-700 and 5 electron 
acceptors: chlorophyll (A0), phylloquinone (A1) and 3 4Fe-4S iron-sulphur
centres, designated Fx, Fa and Fb.

The proteins psaA and psaB are similar and form a dimer in the membrane,
the complex being involved in binding the electron transfer components [1].
Each protein contains 11 well-conserved putative transmembrane (TM) domains.
The Fx iron-sulphur centre is bound between TM domains 8 and 9, each
protein providing 2 of the 4 cysteine ligands [1].

PHOTSYSPSAAB is a 12-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
psaA and psaB photosystem I proteins. The fingerprint was derived from 
an initial alignment of 8 sequences: motifs 1-8 encode TM domains 1-8; 
motif 9 spans the highly-conserved loop region between TM domains 8 and 9,
which contains the Cys ligands for the Fx iron-sulphur centre (cf. PROSITE
pattern PHOTOSYSTEM_I_PSAAB (PS00419)); and motifs 10-12 encode TM domains
9-11. Two iterations on OWL23.2 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 26 sequences was identified. Two partial
matches were also found: PSAA_EUGGR is a psaA protein lacking a match with
the first TM region; and HLBPSHA is a core polypeptide from the reaction 
centre of the photosynthetic bacterium Heliobacillus mobilis, known to be
related to other photosystems.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 41 sequences.
