TRANSGELIN
SM22-alpha (transgelin) is expressed exclusively in smooth muscle-containing
tissues of adult animals and is one of the earliest markers of differentiated
smooth muscle cells (SMCs) [1]. SM22-alpha mRNA is expressed at high levels
in the aorta, uterus, lung, and intestine, and in primary cultures of rat 
aortic SMCs, and the SMC line, A7r5 [1].

Transgelin is the product of a single gene that is conserved in yeast,
Drosophila, molluscs and humans [2], and is highly similar to several other
proteins of unknown function (including mouse p27 and human WS3-10). The 
smaller domains of similarity shared between transgelin and other proteins, 
such as rat NP25, chicken calponins alpha and beta, and Drosophila mp20,
suggest that these proteins may be classified as members of a new transgelin
multigene family [2]. 

TRANSGELIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for smooth
muscle 22-alpha proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved 
sections spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
regions that characterise the SM22 proteins but distinguish them from 
the rest of the calponin family - motif 5 includes a putative (RGD) cell
attachment site. Two iterations on OWL30.2 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 10 sequences was
identified. Four partial matches were also found, all of which are
SM22/calponin family members that fail to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 6 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
