GELSOLIN
Gelsolin is a cytoplasmic, calcium-regulated, actin-modulating protein that 
binds to the barbed ends of actin filaments, preventing monomer exchange
(end-blocking or capping) [1]. It can promote nucleation (the assembly of
monomers into filaments), as well as sever existing filaments. In addition,
this protein binds with high affinity to fibronectin. Plasma gelsolin and
cytoplasmic gelsolin are derived from a single gene by alternate initiation 
sites and differential splicing.

Sequence comparisons indicate an evolutionary relationship between gelsolin,
villin, fragmin and severin [2]. Six large repeating segments occur in
gelsolin and villin, and 3 similar segments in severin and fragmin. While
the multiple repeats have yet to be related to any known function of the
actin-severing proteins, the superfamily appears to have evolved from an
ancestral sequence of 120 to 130 amino acid residues [2].

GELSOLIN is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
gelsolins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 11
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions within the
C-terminal half of the alignment, spanning the putative Ca-sensitive
actin-binding domain. Two iterations on OWL28.1 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 14 sequences was 
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which belong to
the actin-severing superfamily (including villins, fragmins, severins and
various actin regulatory proteins).

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 22 sequences, and 17
partial matches.
