ENDOTHELIN
Endothelins play an important role in the regulation of the cardiovascular
system [1]. They are the most potent vasoconstrictors known, they stimulate
cardiac constraction, regulate release of vasoactive substances, and 
stimulate mitogenesis in blood vessels in primary culture. They also
stimulate contraction in almost all other smooth muscles (e.g., uterus,
bronchus, vas deferensa and stomach) and stimulate secretion in several
tissues (e.g., kidney, liver and adrenals). Endothelin receptors have also
been found in the brain, e.g. cerebral cortex, cerebellum and glial cells.
Endothelins have been implicated in a variety of pathophysiological
conditions associated with stress, including hypertension, myocardial
infarction, subarachnoid haemorrhage and renal failure.

Endothelins are synthesised by proteolysis of large preproendothelins,
which are cleaved to 'big endothelins' before being processed to the
mature peptide [1]. Three distinct human endothelins encoded by separate
genes have been identified: ET1, ET2 and ET3 are present in lung, kidney,
adrenal gland, brain and other tissues. The sequences of the peptides
contain 4 cysteine residues, which are involved in disulphide bond
formation, and are highly similar to the SRTX family from snake venom.

ENDOTHELIN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
endothelins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 10 
sequences: motifs 1 and 2 span span the full peptide length, and motif 3
lies in the C-terminal preproendothelin region. Two iterations on
SPTR57.15_40.15f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true
set comprising 44 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also
found, Q08FZ4_DPV83 and Q08FH4_DPV84, both of which are virally-encoded
endothelin sequences that fail to match motif 3. 
