OTCASE
The ornithine carbamoyltransferases are a family of enzymes that catalyse 
the production of citrulline from carbamoyl-phosphate and ornithine [1]. 
This reaction is part of the arginine biosynthetic pathway, and in some 
organisms the reaction is also part of the arginine deaminase pathway [2]. 
In most prokaryotes, and some lower eukaryotes, the enzyme is found in the 
cytoplasm, but in higher eukaryotes, such as mammals, the enzyme is found
in the mitochondrial matrix and functions as part of the urea cycle. In
most organisms analysed to date, the enzyme has been shown to consist of a 
trimer of identical or nonidentical subunits [3]. Extensive similarity has 
been found within the ornithine carbamoyltransferase family, some of the
conserved areas being important in catalysis [4].  

The C-terminal region of these enzymes shows a degree of similarity to the 
aspartate carbamoyltransferases, which are also known to bind carbamoyl-
phosphate [5]. This region contains a highly conserved Cys residue (in a
His-Cys-Lys-Pro motif) implicated in ornithine binding [3].

OTCASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for ornithine
carbamoyltransferases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 5 sequences: motifs 1 (cf. PROSITE pattern CARBAMOYLTRANSFERASE
(PS00097)) and 3 contain residues thought to be involved in carbamoyl-
phosphate binding. Two iterations on OWL15.0 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 18 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 43 sequences, and 7
partial matches.
