LVIRUSRNAPOL
The nucleotide sequence for the RNA of potato leafroll luteovirus (PLRV) has
been determined [1,2]. The sequence contains six large open reading frames
(ORFs). The 5' coding region encodes two polypeptides of 28K and 70K, which 
overlap in different reading frames; it is suggested that the third ORF in 
the 5' block is translated by frameshift readthrough near the end of the 70K 
protein, yielding a 118K polypeptide [1]. The C-terminal part of the 118K 
protein contains a consensus sequence for RNA-dependent RNA-polymerases [1]. 

The genomic RNA sequence of cowpea southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV-C) has
been determined [3]. The genome contains four ORFs. The largest ORF encodes 
the two largest proteins translated in cell-free extracts from full-length
virion RNA [3]. Segments of the predicted amino acid sequence of this ORF
resemble those of known viral RNA-polymerases, ATP-binding proteins and 
viral genome-linked proteins [3]. 

The genome sequence of pea enation mosaic virus (PEMV) RNA 1 shows strong
organisational relationships and sequence similarities to the beet western
yellows-potato leafroll luteovirus subgroup [4]. Sequence analysis reveals
five predominant ORFs. The third ORF is characterised by a number of RNA-
polymerase motifs and a helicase-like motif typical of RNA-dependent RNA-
polymerases [4]. It overlaps (out of frame) the ORF 2 product and is 
proposed to be expressed by a frameshift fusion of ORF 2 and ORF 3 [4]. 

The PLRV sequence shows some similarities to the putative polymerase of 
SBMV [3], and more extensive similarities to the corresponding beet western 
yellows virus polypeptide [5]. 

LVIRUSRNAPOL is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
BWYV/PLRV luteovirus RNA-directed RNA-polymerases. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 15 sequences: the motifs were drawn 
from conserved regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment. Two
iterations on OWL30.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 16 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are fragments and family members that fail
to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 13 sequences.
