NGF
During the development of the vertebrate nervous system, many neurons
become redundant (because they have died, failed to connect to target
cells, etc.) and are eliminated. At the same time, developing neurons send
out axon outgrowths that contact their target cells [1]. Such cells control
their degree of innervation (the number of axon connections) by the
secretion of various specific neurotrophic factors that are essential for
neuron survival. One of these is nerve growth factor (NGF), which is
involved in the survival of some classes of embryonic neuron (e.g., peri-
pheral sympathetic neurons) [1]. NGF is mostly found outside the central
nervous system (CNS), but slight traces have been detected in adult CNS
tissues, although a physiological role for this is unknown [1]; it has also
been found in several snake venoms [2,3]. Proteins similar to NGF include
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophins 3 to 5, all of
which demonstrate neuron survival and outgrowth activities.

NGF is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the nerve
growth factors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 34
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions in the C-terminal
portion of the alignment, each including at least one of 6 Cys residues
involved in disulphide bond formation - motifs 2 and 3 span the regions
encoded by PROSITE pattern NGF (PS00248). Two iterations on OWL22.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 28
sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR55_38f identified a true set of 117 sequences and three
partial matches: Q6YNR1_HUMAN is human brain-derived neurotrophic factor
BDNF, which fails to make a significant match with motif 2; and 
Q19TV5_BRAFL and Q19TV4_STRPU are prepro-neurotrophins from Branchiostoma
floridae and Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, both of which fail to make
signficant matches with motifs 1 and 2.
