SHIGARICIN
Various plant and bacterial toxins act by inhibiting protein synthesis
in eukaryotic cells. Toxins of the shiga and ricin family inactivate 60S
ribosomal subunits by an N-glycosidic cleavage, which releases a specific
adenine base from the sugar-phosphate backbone of 28S RNA. Members of the
family include shiga and shiga-like toxins, and type I (e.g. trichosanthin
and luffin) and type II (e.g. ricin, agglutinin and abrin) ribosome 
inactivating proteins (RIPs). 

RIPs have been of considerable interest because of their potential use,
conjugated with monoclonal antibodies, as immunotoxins to treat cancers.
Further, trichosanthin has been shown to have potent activity against
HIV-1-infected T cells and macrophages [1]. Elucidation of the structure-
function relationships of RIPs has therefore become a major research
effort. It is now known that RIPs are structurally related. A conserved
glutamic residue has been implicated in the catalytic mechanism [2]; this
lies near a conserved arginine, which also plays a role in catalysis [3].

SHIGARICIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
the shiga/ricin family of ribosomal inactivating toxins. The fingerprint
was derived from an initial alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were
drawn from short conserved regions spanning the full alignment length,
motif 4 including the region encoded by PROSITE pattern SHIGA_RICIN
(PS00275), which includes the conserved active site glutamic and arginine
residues. Two iterations on OWL26.0 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 46 sequences was identified. Several
partial matches were also found, all of which are fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 38 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
