ATCASE
Aspartate carbamoyltransferase (ATCase) catalyses the formation of 
carbamoyl-aspartate in the pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway, by the 
association of aspartate and carbamoyl-phosphate. This is the commitment 
step in the E.coli pathway and is regulated by feedback inhibition by CTP, 
the final product of the pathway.

The structural organisation of the ATCase protein varies considerably 
between different organisms. In bacteria such as E.coli, S.typhimurium and
Serratia marcescens, the ATCase is a dodecamer of 2 catalytic (c) trimers
and 3 regulatory (r) dimers. The catalytic domains are coded for by the
pyrB gene, and the regulatory domains by pyrI. In Gram-positive bacteria
such as B.subillis, ATCase exists as a trimer of catalytic subunits, but
unlike in E.coli, it neither contains nor binds to regulatory subunits. In
eukaryotes, ATCase is found as a single domain in a multifinctional enzyme
that contains activity for glutamine amidotransferase, carbamoylphosphate
synthetase, dihydroorotase, and aspartate carbamoyltransferase.

ATCASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for aspartate
carbamoyltransferases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 9 sequences: motif 1 encodes a region containing 3 residues
believed to be implicated in binding the phosphoryl group of carbamoyl
phosphate (cf. PROSITE pattern CARBAMOYLTRANSFERASE (PS00097)). Two
iterations on OWL15.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 31 sequences was identified. Fourteen partial matches
were also found, all of which are ornithine carbamoyltransferases.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 39 sequences, and 6
partial matches.
