MALOXRDTASE
Malic enzymes (malate oxidoreductases) catalyse the oxidative decarboxyl-
ation of malate to form pyruvate [1], a reaction important in a number of
metabolic pathways - e.g. carbon dioxide released from the reaction may be
used in sugar production during the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis [1].
There are 3 forms of the enzyme: an NAD-dependent form that decarboxylates
oxaloacetate; an NAD-dependent form that does not decarboxylate oxalo-
acetate; and an NADPH-dependent form [1]. Other proteins known to be
similar to malic enzymes are the E.coli scfA protein; a plant enzyme,
formerly thought to be cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase [2]; and the
hypothetical yeast protein YKL029c.

Studies on the duck liver malic enzyme reveals that it can be alkylated by
bromopyruvate, resulting in the loss of oxidative decarboxylation and the
subsequent enhancement of pyruvate reductase activity [3]. The alkylated
form is able to bind NADPH but not L-malate, indicating impaired substrate-
or divalent metal ion-binding in the active site [3]. Sequence analysis has
highlighted a cysteine residue as the point of alkylation, suggesting that
it may play an important role in the activity of the enzyme [3], although
it is absent in the sequences from some species.

MALOXRDTASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for malate
oxidoreductases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the central
portion of the alignment, motif 5 including the region encoded by PROSITE
pattern MALIC_ENZYMES (PS00331), and motif 6 containing a propsed NAD/NADP
binding site. Two iterations on OWL25.1 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 28 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 40 sequences, and 12
partial matches.
