INTRLEUKIN8R
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

Interleukin-8 (IL8) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine involved in the cellular
response to inflammation, being a powerful chemoattractant for neutrophils
[6]. There are 2 similar cell surface receptors for IL8: type 1 (IL-8RA) is
a high affinity receptor for IL8 alone; while type 2 (IL-8RB) is a high
affinity receptor for IL8, growth related gene (GRO) and neutrophil-
activating protein-2 (NAP-2). The affinity of type 1 receptors for IL8 is
higher than that of type 2 receptors [6,7]. The receptors are coupled to
Bordetella pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins [8]. Signal
transduction depends on the activation of a phospholipase C specific for
phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate, producing 2 second messengers:
inositol triphosphate and diacylglycerol [8]. Inositol triphosphate induces
a rise in the levels of cytosolic free calcium, while diacylglycerol
activates protein kinase C, leading to activation of neutrophils [8].

INTRLEUKIN8R is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
IL8 receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 8
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections within either loop
or TM regions, focusing on those areas of the alignment that characterise
the IL8 receptors but distinguish them from the rest of the rhodopsin-like
superfamily - motif 1 lies N-terminal to TM domain 1; motif 2 spans the
first cytoplasmic loop; motifs 3 and 4 lie at the N-termini of TM domains 3
and 4; motif 5 spans the C-terminus of TM domain 5 and the third cytoplasmic
loop; motif 6 spans the C-terminus of TM domain 6 and the third expternal
loop; and motif 7 lies at the C-terminus. A single iteration on OWL26.3 was
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond 
the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 9 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
