ADRENRGCA2BR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

In the periphery, the adrenergic system plays an important role in
regulating the cardiovascular system [6]. Increased sympathetic discharge
to the heart increases the rate and force of contraction mediated through 
beta-1 receptors. Circulating adrenaline also acts on cardiac tissue, and, 
in addition acts both on alpha-1 adrenoceptors in arterial smooth muscle, 
stimulating vasoconstriction, and on beta-2 adrenoceptors in vascular beds 
of skeletal muscle, stimulating vasodilation [6]. In the CNS, noradrenaline 
is thought to be involved in the regulation of mood, and various psycho-
active drugs alter noradrenergic function. Numerous drugs exert their 
actions via adrenoceptors: e.g., beta-2 selective agonists such as 
salbutamol are used in the acute treatment of asthma, while alpha agonists 
prolong the action of local anaesthetics, and act as nasal decongestants [6].

Adrenoceptors can be divided into three main classes based on sequence
similarity, receptor pharmacology and signalling mechanisms. Further 
subdivisions exist within each class [6]. A large number of agonists and 
antagonists distinguish between the different classes of adrenoceptor; by
contrast, relatively small differences in agonist and antagonist affinities
are demonstrated, especially within the alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor
subtypes [6]. 

A limited distribution of alpha-2B receptor mRNA has been demonstrated by
Northern analysis, it being found for example in only 2 peripheral tissues 
(liver and kidney), and not in the brain [6]. The receptor inhibits adenylyl
cyclase and L-type calcium channels through a pertussis-toxin-insensitive
G protein belonging to the Gi/G0 class [6]. 

ADRENRGCA2BR is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
alpha-2B adrenergic receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections
within either loop or C-terminal regions, focusing on those areas of the
alignment that characterise the alpha-2B adrenergic receptors but
distinguish them from the rest of the rhodopsin-like superfamily - motifs 
1-4 lie at the N-terminus; motif 5 spans the third external loop; and motif
6 lies at the C-terminus. A single iteration on OWL28.1 was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting
set. Two partial matches were also found, HUMA2C2 and S67316, both of
which are alpha-2 adrenergic receptor fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 4 sequences.
