SPUMVIRPTASE
Aspartic proteases have a catalytic aspartate residue at their active site.
More than 8 families (denoted A1-A9) have been identified, three of which
(pepsin, retropepsin and cauliflower mosaic virus) have been grouped into 
a single clan (AA), as they are thought to share a common ancestry. The
remaining five families have not yet been assigned to clans [1-3].

Foamy virus (spumavirus) proteases belong to the A9 family of aspartic 
proteases [3]. At the moment, it is not clear whether they share a common 
evolutionary origin with other aspartic proteases. Foamy viruses are single-  
stranded enveloped retroviruses that have been noted to infect monkeys, cats
and humans. In the human virus, the aspartic protease is encoded by the
retroviral gag gene [4], and in monkeys by the pol gene [5]. At present,
the virus has not been proven to cause any particular disease. However,
studies have shown human foamy virus causes neurological disorders in
infected mice [6]. 

SPUMVIRPTASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
aspartic protease of foamy viruses (spumavirus). The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the C-terminal portion the gag polyprotein and 
the N-terminal portion of the pol polyprotein - motif 1 encodes the
catalytic aspartate residue. Two iterations of OWL30.1 were required to 
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 9 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was also found, FVPROPOL, a feline foamy 
virus fragment that matches motifs 1 and 2.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 6 sequences.
