ATPASEA
ATP synthase (proton-translocating ATPase) is a component of the cyto-
plasmic membrane of eubacteria, the inner membrane of mitochondria, and
the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts [1,2]. The ATPase complex contains
an oligomeric transmembrane portion (CF0), which acts as a proton channel,
and a catalytic core (coupling factor CF1).

The CF0 a-subunit is a highly hydrophobic protein and has been predicted to
contain 8 transmembrane (TM) regions [3]. It is a key component of the
proton channel, possibly playing a direct role in the translocation of
protons across the membrane. Sequence comparison of a-subunits reveals
that the overall level of similarity is quite low, but the degree of
conservation is relatively high in putative TM domain 5, which contains
a conserved arginine. Mutagenesis experiments have shown that the Arg
residue is required for proton translocation, its replacement resulting
in loss of ATPase activity [4]. 

ATPASEA is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the ATP
synthase a-subunits. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 4 possible TM domains, motif 3
including the region encoded by PROSITE pattern ATPASE_A (PS00449), which
contains the conserved Arg. Three iterations on OWL24.0 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 75 sequences was
identified. Six partial matches were also found, each of which fails to
make a significant match with 2 motifs.    

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 165 sequences, and 24
partial matches.
