TRYPANRDTASE
Trypanothione reductase from leishmania, and African and South American
trypanosomes, has been purified and characterised [1]. The enzymes have
similar physical, mechanistic and kinetic properties, and are members of
the flavoprotein disulphide oxidoreductase family. Trypanothione is the
parasite analogue of glutathione, hence this enzyme is equivalent to
glutathione reductase. It catalyses the reaction:
NADPH + trypanothione = NADP(+) + reduced trypanothione

Trypanothione reductase shows pronounced specificty for its disulphide
substrates, trypanothione disulphide or glutathionylspermidine disulphide.
The 3D structure of the enzyme has been determined and its mode of
substrate binding revealed in detail [2], offering hope for the design of
drugs to combat Chagas disease. The structure belongs to the alpha+beta
class, i.e. with mainly anti-parallel beta-sheets separated by alpha and
beta regions. It contains an alpha-beta sandwich characteristic of
FAD/NAD-linked reductases and a C-terminal dimerisation domain.  

TRYPANRDTASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
trypanothione reductase. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
within the N-terminal half of the alignment, i.e. away from the domains
that characterise the rest of the flavoprotein disulphide oxidoreductase
family. Two iterations on OWL27.0 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 10 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 13 sequences, and
a single partial match (Q95PT6_LEIDO), which is a trypanothione reductase
from Leishmania donovani that fails to match motif 3.
