CUTINASE
Aerial plant organs are protected by a cuticle composed of an insoluble
polymeric structural compound, cutin, which is a polyester composed of
hydroxy and hydroxyepoxy fatty acids [1]. Plant pathogenic fungi produce
extracellular degradative enzymes [2] that play an important role in
pathogenesis: they include cutinase, which hydrolyses cutin, facilitating
fungus penetration through the cuticle [1,2]. Inhibition of the enzyme can
prevent fungal infection through intact cuticles [1]. Cutin monomers
released from the cuticle by small amounts of cutinase on fungal spore
surfaces can greatly increase the amount of cutinase secreted by the spore,
the mechanism for which process is as yet unknown [1,2].

Cutinase is a serine esterase containing the classical Ser, His, Asp triad
of serine hydrolases [1]. The protein belongs to the alpha-beta class,
with a central beta-sheet of 5 parallel strands covered by 5 helices on
either side of the sheet [3]. The active site cleft is partly covered by 2
thin bridges formed by amino acid side chains, by contrast with the hydro-
phobic lid possessed by other lipases [3]. The protein also contains 2
disulphide bridges, which are essential for activity, their cleavage 
resulting in complete loss of enzymatic activity [1].

CUTINASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
cutinases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length, motifs 4 and 5 including the regions encoded by
PROSITE patterns CUTINASE_1 (PS00155) and CUTINASE_2 (PS00931), which
contain the Ser residue, and the Asp and His residues of the catalytic triad
respectively. Two iterations on OWL22.1 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 8 sequences, and 1
partial match.
