POLYCYSTIN1
Polycystic kidney diseases (PKD) are disorders characterised by large
numbers of cysts distributed throughout grossly-enlarged kidneys. Cyst
development is associated with impairment of kidney function, and ultimately
kidney failure and death [1,2]. Most cases of autosomal dominant PKD result
from mutations in the PKD1 gene that cause premature protein termination. 

PKD1 encodes a large cell-surface glycoprotein termed polycystin-1, the 
function of which is unknown [3]. The protein contains 4304 amino acid 
residues and has a composite domain architecture. The N-terminal half of
the protein consists of a mosaic of domains such as leucine-rich repeats
flanked by characteristic cysteine-rich structures, LDL-A and C-type lectin
domains, and 14 units of a novel 80-amino acid module, designated the PKD
domain [4]. The presence of these domains suggests that the PKD1 protein is
involved in adhesive protein-protein and protein-carbohydrate interactions
in the extracellular compartment [4]. 

The PKD domain has been shown to adopt a beta-sandwich fold, which is
characteristic of a number of cell-surface modules; nevertheless, the PKD
domain represents a distinct protein family [3]. The tenth PKD domain of 
human and Fugu polycystin-1 show extensive conservation of surface residues,
implicating this region as a potential ligand-binding site [3]. 

POLYCYSTIN1 is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
polycystin-1. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 
sequences: the motifs were drawn largely from hydrophobic segments spanning
the C-terminal half of the alignment. Two iterations on SPTR39_14f were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 6 
sequences was identified.
