ALDKETRDTASE
The aldo-keto reductase family includes a number of related monomeric 
NADPH-dependent oxidoreductases [1], such as aldehyde reductase, aldose
reductase, prostaglandin F synthase, xylose reductase, rho crystallin, and
many others. All possess a similar structure, with a beta-alpha-beta fold 
characteristic of nucleotide binding proteins [2].

The fold comprises a parallel beta-8/alpha-8-barrel, which contains a 
novel NADP-binding motif [3]. The binding site is located in a large,
deep, elliptical pocket in the C-terminal end of the beta sheet, the 
substrate being bound in an extended conformation [3]. The hydrophobic
nature of the pocket favours aromatic and apolar substrates over highly
polar ones [3]. Binding of the NADPH coenzyme causes a massive
conformational change, reorienting a loop, effectively locking the
coenzyme in place [4]. This binding is more similar to FAD- than to
NAD(P)-binding oxidoreductases [4].

ALDKETRDTASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
the aldo-keto reductases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
around the NADPH-binding/active site, motifs 1, 3 and 6 including the N-
terminal, central and C-terminal regions encoded by PROSITE patterns
ALDOKETO_REDUCTASE_1 (PS00798), ALDOKETO_REDUCTASE_2 (PS00062) and ALDOKETO_
REDUCTASE_3 (PS00063); and motif 2 containing a conserved His, which is
implicated as the active site residue. Two iterations on OWL25.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 50
sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found: CRO_RANTE
is a rho crystallin fragment lacking the first motif; and YSCSEQCAT is a
yeast ORF1 sequence, similar to the aldo-keto reductases, but with a
deletion in the middle of the first motif.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 85 sequences, and 15
partial matches.
