AFETOPROTEIN
A number of serum transport proteins are known to be evolutionarily related, 
including albumin, alpha-fetoprotein, vitamin D-binding protein and afamin
[1-3]. Albumin is the main protein of plasma; it binds water, cations (such
as Ca++, Na+ and  K+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin and drugs - its 
main function is to regulate the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. 
Vitamin D-binding protein binds to vitamin D and its metabolites, as well 
as to fatty acids. The biological role of afamin (alpha-albumin) has not 
yet been characterised.

Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) (alpha-fetoglobulin) is a foetal plasma protein
that binds various cations, fatty acids and bilirubin [4,5]. The protein
appears in the plasma of 4-week old fetuses, reaches its highest levels in
the 12th-16th week of gestation, dropping to trace amounts after birth. It
is also found at high levels in the plasma and ascitic fluid of adults with
hepatoma [6]. 

The amino acid sequence contains a 19-amino acid signal peptide [7], and a 
591-residue mature protein [8]. Fifteen regularly-spaced disulphide bridges
generate a 3-domain folding structure, each domain containing ~190 amino
acids, with 5 or 6 internal disulphide bonds, as shown schematically below.
Sequence comparisons indicate that the greatest level of conservation 
resides in domain 3 and the lowest in domain 1 [4]. 

                   +---+          +----+                        +-----+
                   |   |          |    |                        |     |
xxCxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCCxxCxxxxCxxxxxCCxxxCxxxxxxxxxCxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCCxxxxCxxxx
  |                 |       |     |              |               |
  +-----------------+       +-----+              +---------------+


In addition to the monomeric form of AFP, dimeric and trimeric forms occur,
which dissociate only on exposure to disulphide-reducing reagents,
suggesting that polymer formation is mediated by inter-molecular disulphide
bond formation [6]. 

AFETOPROTEIN is an 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
alpha-fetoglobulins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections spanning 
the full length of the mature protein, focusing on those regions that
characterise the AFPs but distinguish them from related serum albumins -
motifs 1-3 lie in the first internal domain; motifs 4 and 5 lie in the
second domain; motif 6 lies in the third domain; and motif 7 resides at
the C-terminus. Two iterations on SPTR55_38f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 13 sequences was 
identified.
