ECOLNEIPORIN
Porins are found in the outer membranes of Gram-negative bacteria,
mitochondria and chloroplasts, where they form ion-selective channels for 
small hydrophilic molecules (up to ~600 Da) [1,2]. X-ray structure analyses
of several bacterial porins [3-5] have revealed a 16-stranded anti-parallel
beta-barrel structure enclosing the transmembrane pore, by contrast with
all other integral membrane proteins described to date, which are alpha-
helical. Three subunits form a trimer; the 3-fold axis is approximately
parallel to the barrel axes and is assumed to be perpendicular to the
membrane plane [6,7].  

From the range of porins now known, similarities have been observed between
porins from different species, and between porins of different specificity
within the same species. But most porins cannot be related to each other on
the basis of sequence alone, and this is reflected in the lengths of the 
known porin sequences, which range from 282-483 residues/monomer.

ECOLNEIPORIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for both
Neisseria and E.coli/Salmonella-type porins. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length. Three
iterations on OWL19.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 51 sequences was identified. The fingerprint is
selective for this superfamily, and there is no cross-reaction with
eukaryotic porins.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 83 sequences, and 1
partial match.
