C2HCZNFINGER
The zinc finger motif is an unusually small, self-folding domain in which 
Zn is a crucial component of its tertiary structure: fingers bind 1 atom of
Zn in a tetrahedral array to yield a finger-like projection, which interacts
with nucleotides in the major groove of the nucleic acid - the Zn binds to 
conserved Cys and His residues. Fingers have been found to bind to about 5
base pairs of nucleic acid containing short runs of guanine residues. They 
are found in all transcription factors, and also proteins such as RNA and 
DNA polymerases. This ability to bind to both RNA and DNA suggests 
versatility not demonstrated by the helix-turn-helix motif: the zinc finger
may thus represent the original nucleic acid binding protein. It has also 
been suggested that a Zn-centred domain could be used in a protein
interaction, e.g. in protein kinase C.

The zinc finger motif was first discovered in the Xenopus laevis 
transcription factor IIIA, and has since been found to be ubiquitous in 
transcription factors and other DNA-binding proteins. Putative fingers are 
present in the structure of many regulatory proteins, acting as specific 
nucleic acid binding domains. The motif contains ~20 amino acid residues,
including conserved Cys and His residues. Zinc fingers bind zinc via a 
number of different motifs, including a C2H2 repeat, a C4 motif (e.g., in
the hormone-regulated proteins), and a C2HC motif.

C2HCZNFINGER is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
C2HC-type zinc fingers. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 35 sequences: the motifs span the complete zinc finger region.
Five iterations on OWL30.2 were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 781 sequences was identified. It is possible
that many more matches to the fingerprint exist, but our cut-offs were
conservative in order to avoid inclusion of false positives.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 403 sequences.
