NCTRNSLOCATR
The Ah (dioxin) receptor binds, and mediates the carcinogenic effects of, a
variety of environmental pollutants, including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-
p-dioxin and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons [1]. The ligand-bound receptor
activates Cyp 1a1 gene transcription through interaction with specific DNA
sequences, so-called xenobiotic responsive elements (XREs). The Ah receptor 
nuclear translocator protein (Arnt) is required for Ah receptor function 
[1]. Arnt is a structural component of the XRE-binding form of the Ah
receptor [1]; it contains a basic helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif, which may
be  responsible for interacting with both the XRE and the ligand-binding
subunit [1]. 

The activated Ah receptor and Arnt protein bind DNA as a heterodimer. Both
proteins contain PAS homology regions, which in Drosophila PER and SIM
proteins function as dimerisation domains [2].

NCTRNSLOCATR is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
nuclear translocator proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment preceding the
glutamine-rich domain - motifs 1 and 2 span the HLH motif, motif 2
including the amphipathic helix encoded by PROSITE pattern HELIX_LOOP_HELIX
(PS00038); motifs 4 and 5 span the first PAS domain; and motif 9 includes
the N-terminus of the second PAS domain. Two iterations on OWL29.4 were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 18
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, all
of which are fragments and family members that fail to make significant
matches with one or more motifs. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 18 sequences, and 39
partial matches.
