LAMNOPPTDASE
Aminopeptidases are exopeptidases involved in the processing and regular
turnover of intracellular proteins, although their precise role in cellular
metabolism is unclear [1,2]. Leucine aminopeptidases cleave leucine residues
from the N-terminal of polypeptide chains, but substantial rates are evident
for all amino acids [2]. 

The enzymes exist as homo-hexamers, comprising 2 trimers stacked on top of
one another [2]. Each monomer binds 2 zinc ions and folds into 2 alpha/beta-
type quasi-spherical globular domains, producing a comma-like shape [2]. The
N-terminal 150 residues form a 5-stranded beta-sheet with 4 parallel and 1
anti-parallel strand sandwiched between 4 alpha-helices [2]. An alpha-helix
extends into the C-terminal domain, which comprises a central 8-stranded 
saddle-shaped beta-sheet sandwiched between groups of helices, forming the
monomer hydrophobic core [2]. A 3-stranded beta-sheet resides on the surface
of the monomer, where it interacts with other members of the hexamer [2].
The 2 zinc ions and the active site are entirely located in the C-terminal
catalytic domain [2].

LAMNOPPTDASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
leucine aminopeptidases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from the vicinity of the
active site in the C-terminal catalytic domain, motif 4 including the
region encoded by PROSITE pattern CYTOSOL_AP (PS00631), the aspartate and
glutamate of which are involved in zinc ion-binding. Two iterations on
OWL27.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 16 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 27 sequences.
