CYTCHROMECIE
Cytochromes c (cyt c) can be defined as electron-transfer proteins having
one or several haem c groups, bound to the protein by one or, more
generally, two thioether bonds involving sulphydryl groups of cysteine
residues. The fifth haem iron ligand is always provided by a histidine
residue. Cyt c possess a wide range of properties and function in a large
number of different redox processes [1].

Ambler [2] recognised four classes of cyt c. Class I includes the low-spin
soluble cyt c of mitochondria and bacteria, with the haem-attachment site
towards the N-terminus, and the sixth ligand provided by a methionine
residue about 40 residues further on towards the C-terminus. On the basis
of sequence similarity, class I cyt c were further subdivided into five
classes, IA to IE. Class IE includes such bacterial proteins as cyt c5, 
cyt c-555 and Ectothiorhodospira spp. cyt c-551. The 3D structure of cyt c5
from Azotobacter vinelandii has been determined [3]. The protein consists 
of 5 alpha-helices; three "core" helices form a "basket" around the haem 
group, with one haem edge exposed to the solvent.

CYTCHROMECIE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for class
IE cyt c. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6
sequences: motifs 1 and 2 are adjacent, motif 1 including helix 2, two
invariant Cys residues of which covalently bind the haem group, and a His 
residue providing the fifth haem iron ligand (cf. PROSITE pattern
CYTOCHROME_C); motif 2 includes an invariant Trp residue; motif 3 lies 
between helices 4 and 5, and includes an invariant Met, which provides the
sixth haem iron ligand. A single iteration on OWL28.0 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
Eight partial matches were also found, all of which are class IC cyt c (cyt
c6) that match motifs 1 and 3.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 8 sequences.
