SPERMPH20
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC 3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition
of up to 60 different families [1-4] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/cgi-bin/lists?
glycosid.txt). Family 56 encompasses a group of hyaluronidases (EC 3.2.1.35)
that includes venom hyaluronidases and mammalian sperm surface proteins
(PH-20).

PH-20 is required for sperm adhesion to the egg zona pellucida; it is
located on both the sperm plasma membrane and acrosomal membrane [5].
During fertilisation, sperm must first penetrate a layer of cumulus cells
that surrounds the egg, before reaching the zona pellucida. The cumulus
cells are embedded in a matrix containing hyaluronic acid, which is formed
prior to ovulation. PH-20 facilitates penetration of the cumulus cell layer
by digesting hyaluronic acid.

The amino acid sequence of the mature protein contains 468 amino acids, and
includes six potential N-linked glycosylation sites and twelve cysteines,
eight of which are tightly clustered near the C-terminus [5].

SPERMPH20 is an 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for sperm
surface protein PH20. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections spanning the
full alignment length, focusing on those regions that characterise the PH20
proteins but distinguish them from other family 56 glycosyl hydrolases. Two
iterations on OWL30.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 7 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 15 sequences, and two 
partial matches (HYALP_RAT and C9J2X5_HUMAN), which are a rat PH20 protein
and a translated human genomic sequence that fail to make significant
matches with motifs 6 and 3-7 respectively.
