GEMCOATMSV
Geminiviruses are characterised by a genome of circular single-stranded
DNA encapsidated in twinned (geminate) quasi-isometric particles, from
which the group derives its name [1]. Most geminiviruses can be divided
into 2 subgroups on the basis of host range and/or insect vector: i.e.
those that infect dicotyledenous plants and are transmitted by the same
whitefly species, and those that infect monocotyledenous plants and are
transmitted by different leafhopper vectors. The genomes of the whitefly-
transmitted cassava latent (CLV), tomato golden mosaic (TGMV) and bean
golden mosaic (BGMV) viruses possess a bipartite genome. By contrast, only
a single DNA component has been identified for the leafhopper-transmitted 
maize streak (MSV) and wheat dwarf (WDV) viruses [2,3]. Beet curly top
(BCTV), bean summer death and tobacco yellow dwarf viruses belong to a 
third possible subgroup. Like MSV and WDV, BCTV is transmitted by a 
specific leafhopper species, yet like the whitefly-transmitted gemini- 
viruses it has a host range confined to dicotyledenous plants.

Comparison of the MSV DNA sequence with those of CLV and TGMV shows no 
detectable similarity [2]. Amino acid sequence comparison of MSV DNA- 
encoded proteins with those of other geminiviruses infecting mono- 
cotyledonous plants, including Panicum streak virus [4] and miscanthus
streak virus [5], reveal high levels of similarity. 

GEMCOATMSV is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for MSV
and WDV coat proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the full alignment length. Two iterations on OWL23.0 were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 10 
sequences was identified. A single partial match was also found, COAT_BCTV,
the closely related beet curly top coat protein, matching motifs 3 and 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 29 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
