CYTOCHROMEC1
Cytochrome bc1 complex (ubiquinol:ferricytochrome c oxidoreductase) is 
found in mitochondria, photosynthetic bacteria and other prokaryotes [1].
It is minimally composed of three subunits: cytochrome b, carrying a low- 
and a high-potential haem group; cytochrome c1 (cyt c1); and a high-
potential Rieske iron-sulphur protein. The general function of the complex 
is electron transfer between two mobile redox carriers, ubiquinol and 
cytochrome c; the electron transfer is coupled with proton translocation 
across the membrane, thus generating proton-motive force in the form of an
electrochemical potential that can drive ATP synthesis. In its structure and
functions, the cytochrome bc1 complex bears extensive analogy to the
cytochrome b6f complex of chloroplasts and cyanobacteria; cyt c1 plays an
analogous role to cytochrome f, in spite of their different structures [2]. 

CYTOCHROMEC1 is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for cyt
c1. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 10 sequences:
motif 2 includes two invariant Cys residues that covalently bind the haem
group, and a His residue, which provides the fifth haem iron ligand (cf.
PROSITE pattern CYTOCHROME_C); and motif 6 includes an invariant Met, which
provides the sixth haem iron ligand [3,4]. Two iterations on OWL28.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 16
sequences was identified. Three partial matches were also found: A44033 is
a Crithidia fasciculata cyt c1 fragment lacking motifs 7 and 8; and S65505
and S65506 are cyt c1 N-terminal fragments, from C. fasciculata and Bodo
caudatus respectively, which match only the first three motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 14 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
