GLHYDRLASE2
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC 3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition
of up to 60 different families [1-3] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/cgi-bin/lists?
glycosid.txt).

Family 2 includes various bacterial beta-galactosidases and beta-
glucuronidases. Alignments of such sequences reveal a number of short
conserved regions, one of which contains a glutamic acid residue, which has
been shown to be the general acid/base catalyst in the enzyme active site
in E.coli lacZ [4].

GLHYDRLASE2 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
family 2 glycosyl hydrolases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motifs 3 and 4 include 
regions encoded by PROSITE patterns GLYCOSYL_HYDROLASE_F2_1 (PS00719)
GLYCOSYL-HYDROLASE_F2_2 (PS00608), the latter containing the catalytically
active Glu. Two iterations on OWL24.0 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 23 sequences was identified. Four
partial matches were also found: BGAL_THETU fails to make a significant
match with motif 5; RHMLACZ only matches motifs 2 and 3; BGLB_BACPO is a
family 1 glycosyl hydrolase that matches motifs 3 and 5; and GUNA_XANCP is
a family 5 glycosyl hydrolase that matches motifs 3 and 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 29 sequences, and 3
partial matches.
