MAMLPOXGNASE
Lipoxygenases are iron-containing dioxygenases that catalyse the hydro-
peroxidation of lipids containing a cis,cis-1,4-pentadiene structure. They
are common in plants, where they are involved in such diverse aspects of 
plant physiology as growth and development, pest resistance and senescence 
or responses to wounding [1]. In mammals, a number of lipoxygenase isozymes
are involved in the metabolism of prostaglandins and leukotrienes [2]. By
contrast with plant lipoxygenases, the mammalian enzymes are activated in
the presence of FLAP (5-lipoxygenase activating protein), and also require
ATP and calcium.

The iron atom in lipoxygenases is bound by 4 ligands, 3 of which are His
residues [3]. In fact there are 6 histidines conserved in all lipoxygenases,
5 of which are clustered in a stretch of 40 amino acids. This region
contains 2 of the 3 His ligands: the other histidines are believed to be
important for lipoxygenase activity [4].

MAMLPOXGNASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
mammalian lipoxygenases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those areas
of the alignment that characterise mammalian lipoxygenases but distinguish
them from those of plant origin (cf. PROSITE patterns LIPOXYGENASE_1
(PS00711) and LIPOXYGENASE_2 (PS00081), and signatures PLTLPOXGNASE and
LIPOXYGENASE). Two iterations on OWL26.3 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 20 sequences was identified. A single
partial match was also found, S74450, a rat 12/15-lipoxygenase fragment.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 14 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
