GLABLOOD
Coagulation proteins, such as factors VII, IX and X, proteins C and S, and 
prothrombin, contain gamma-carboxyglutamic acid residues: these vary in 
number between 9 and 12, and are produced by post-translational 
modification of Glu residues by a vitamin K-dependent carboxylase. Calcium 
ions bind to the gamma-carboxyglutamic acid residues of the Gla domain and 
support the binding of these vitamin K-dependent proteins to acidic 
phospholipid vesicles, resulting in the production of a soluble fibrin clot.

The Gla domain is an N-terminal module of about 48 residues that contains
carboxylated Glu residues responsible for high-affinity calcium binding.
It terminates with a conserved aromatic residue, and at its centre has a
conserved Gla-x(3)-Gla-x-Cys motif, which seems to be important for the
substrate recognition by the carboxylase. The domain is dominated by
secondary structure comprising 3 turns of alpha-helix and 5 short beta-
strands arranged into 2 beta-structural units. Cys residues 18 and 23 of
the Gla domain participate in a disulphide bridge to form a small conserved
loop close to a cluster of conserved aromatic residues.

GLABLOOD is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the N-
terminal 'Gla domain' of coagulation proteins. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 6 sequences (after Soriano-Garcia [1]): the
motifs span the region encoded by PROSITE pattern GLU_CARBOXYLATION
(PS00011), 1 and 2 encoding the Gla-x(3)-Gla-x-Cys motif. Four iterations
on OWL11.0 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 29 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, a coagulation factor fragment, which lacks part of motif 3. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 38 sequences, and 1
partial match.
