P2Y1PRNOCPTR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

In addition to their roles in energy metabolism, extracellular nucleotides 
(such as ATP) can act as signalling molecules to induce a wide variety of 
biological effects. They are released into the extracellular fluid as a 
result of cell lysis, exocytosis of nucleotide-containing granules or by 
efflux through membrane transport proteins, and can function as autocrine 
and paracrine mediators [6,7]. Nucleotides play a role in synaptic 
transmission and in platelet-vessel wall interactions. In neurons of the 
central and peripheral nervous system, ATP is colocalised and cosecreted 
with more traditional neurotransmitters, such as catecholamines and 
acetylcholine, and has excitatory effects [6,7]. ATP is also found in high 
concentrations in the dense granules of platelets, together with ADP. These 
granules also contain lower levels of other nucleotides, such as adenine 
dinucleotides, GTP and UTP [7]. In addition, ADP is released from the 
vascular endothelium following injury and causes activation of platelets [6].

Receptors for adenine nucleotides are collectively termed P2 purinoceptors. 
They can be further subdivided into two structural classes: P2X receptors 
are ligand-gated ion channels, while P2Y receptors are G protein-coupled 
receptors. P2Y receptors have also been identified that are selective for 
uridine (rather than adenine) nucleotides [7]. 

The P2Y1 receptor is expressed in the heart, skeletal muscle, aortic
endothelium, pancreas, spleen, brain and spinal cord, and mediates muscle
relaxation and the release of endothelium-derived nitric oxide. P2Y1 is also
expressed in blood platelets and plays a crucial role in ADP-induced 
platelet aggregation. The receptor is activated selectively by adenine 
diphosphate and triphosphate nucleotides and stimulates phosphoinositide 
metabolism through a pertussis-toxin-insensitive G protein, probably 
belonging to the Gi/Go class [6,8].

P2Y1PRNOCPTR is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
P2Y1 purinoceptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 
6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections within either
loop or N- and C-terminal regions, focusing on those areas of the alignment
that characterise the P2Y1 receptors but distinguish them from the rest of
the P2Y receptor family - motifs 1 and 2 lie at the N-terminus; motif 3
spans the third external loop; and motifs 4-6 span the C-terminus. A
single iteration on OWL28.1 was required to reach convergence, no further
sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 6 sequences.
