HEMOGLOBNASE
Cysteine protease activity is dependent on an active dyad of cysteine and
histidine, the order and spacing of these residues varying in the 20 or so
known families. Families C1, C2 and C10 are loosely termed papain-like. 
Nearly half of all cysteine proteases are found exclusively in viruses [1].

The blood fluke parasite Schistosoma mansoni has two cysteine proteases in 
its digestive tract, one a cathepsin B-like protease, the other termed
hemoglobinase [1,2]. The latter has been hard to purify, free of cathepsin
B, and expressed forms in E.coli prove to be inactive, suggesting that
hemoglobinase may act in association with cathepsin B [1,3]. Plant vacuolar
processing enzyme and legumain from legumes [1] have been shown to have
sequence and functional similarity to hemoglobinase. The catalytic residues
of the family are currently unknown, but sequence alignments reveal one
totally conserved cysteine and two totally conserved histidines.

HEMOGLOBNASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
hemoglobinase (C13) family of cysteine proteases. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment, motifs
1 and 4 containing the totally conserved histidines. Two iterations on
OWL29.3 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 15 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, CET28H103, an expressed protein from C.elegans cosmid T28H10 that
matches strongly with motifs 1-3 and appears to be a hemoglobinase-like
protein fragment.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 23 sequences.
