F16BPHPHTASE
Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) catalyses the hydrolysis of fructose-
1,6-bisphosphate to fructose-6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate [1]. Green
plants have 2 forms, cytosolic and plastid [1]: the cytosolic form is an 
essential enzyme in gluconeogenesis [2], having characteristics typical
of gluconeogenetic FBPases [1]; the plastid form, which has its own unique
characteristics, is essential for fixation of carbon dioxide into sugars,
and is light-regulated via sulphide bond reduction [2]. In spite of their
different functional characteristics, the 2 forms of FBPase show a large
degree of sequence and structural similarity [1].

FBPases are tetramers of identical subunits, each monomer possessing 7
alpha-helices and 13 beta-strands [3]. The enzyme is regulated in vivo by
fructose-2,6-phosphate and AMP: AMP acts as an allosteric inhibitor, and
fructose-2,6-phosphate binds at the active site [3].

F16BPHPHTASE (formerly FBPHPHTASE) is a 6-element fingerprint that provides
a signature for the fructose-1,6-phosphatases. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on
those sections that characterise the fructose-1,6-phosphatases but
distinguish them from closely related members of the inositol mono-
phosphatase superfamily. Nine iterations on SPTR55_38f were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 461 sequences was
identified. Numerous partial matches were also found, all of which are
family members that fail to match one or more motifs.
