STPHPHTASE
Protein phosphorylation plays a central role in the regulation of cell 
functions [1], causing the activation or inhibition of many enzymes involved
in various biochemical pathways [2]. Kinases and phosphatases are the
enzymes responsible for this, and may themselves be subject to control
through the action of hormones and growth factors [1]. Serine/threonine
(S/T) phosphatases catalyse the dephosphorylation of phosphoserine and
phosphothreonine residues. There are 4 main classes of S/T phosphatase,
which have different sensitivities to various inhibitors and show different
substrate specificities [1,3]. The catalytic regions of the proteins are
well conserved and have a slow mutation rate, suggesting that major changes
in these regions are highly detrimental, as might be expected for proteins
involved in the regulation of fundamental cell processes [1].

STPHPHTASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
serine/threonine phosphatases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length, motif 3 including the conserved
pentapeptide encoded by PROSITE pattern SER_THR_PHOSPHATASE (PS00125). Two
iterations on OWL22.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 73 sequences was identified. Eight partial matches were
also found, one of which, S27811, is a Ser/Thr phosphatase that fails to
make significant matches with motifs 5 and 6, the rest being Ser/Thr
phosphatase fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 160 sequences, and 16
partial matches.
