FPNCR
Flavoprotein pyridine nucleotide cytochrome reductases [1] (FPNCR) catalyse
the interchange of reducing equivalents between one-electron carriers and
the two-electron-carrying nicotinamide dinucleotides. The enzymes include
ferredoxin:NADP+ reductases (FNR) [2], plant and fungal NAD(P)H:nitrate
reductases [1,3], NADH:cytochrome b5 reductases [4], NADPH:P450 reductases
[5], NADPH:sulphite reductases [6], nitric oxide synthases [7], phthalate
dioxygenase reductase [8], and various other flavoproteins.

Despite functional similarities, FPNCRs show no sequence similarity to 
NADPH:adrenodoxin reductases [9], nor to bacterial ferredoxin:NAD+
reductases and their homologues [10]. To date, 3D-structures of 4 members
of the family have been solved: spinach ferredoxin:NADP+ reductase [11];
Pseudomonas cepacia phthalate dioxygenase reductase [8]; the flavoprotein
domain of corn nitrate reductase [12]; and pig NADH:cytochrome b5 reductase
[13]. In all of them, the FAD-binding domain (N-terminal) has the topology
of an anti-parallel beta-barrel, while the NAD(P)-binding domain 
(C-terminal) has the topology of a classical pyridine dinucleotide-binding
fold (i.e. a central parallel beta-sheet with 2 helices on each side) [8]. 
In spite of such structural similarities, the level of amino acid identity 
between family members is at or below the limit of significance (e.g., 
nitrate reductase is only 15% identical to FNR) [12].

FPNCR is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for flavo-
protein pyridine nucleotide cytochrome reductases. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 37 sequences: motifs 2 and 3 are
involved in binding the isoalloxazine ring and the diphosphate group of FAD
respectively; motif 4 includes residues involved in binding the diphosphate
group of the pyridine nucleotide; and motif 8 contains a conserved Cys
residue that may interacts with NAD(P)H and is necessary for efficient
electron transfer [8]. Three iterations on OWL25.1 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 81 sequences was
identified. Numerous partial matches were also found: the relatively poor
discrimination of this fingerprint results from the high level of sequence
divergence exhibited by members of the family.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 87 sequences, and 90
partial matches.
