4DISULPHCORE
A group of proteins containing 8 characteristically-spaced cysteine
residues, which are involved in disulphide bond formation, have been
termed '4-disulphide core' proteins [1]. While the pattern of conserved 
cysteines suggests that the sequences may adopt a similar fold, the
overall degree of sequence similarity is low (e.g. a few Pro and Gly
residues are reasonably well conserved, as is the polar/acidic nature of
residues between the third and fourth Cys, but otherwise there is little 
sequence conservation). The group of sequences that share this pattern
include whey acidic protein (WAP) [1], elafin (an elastase-specific 
inhibitor from human skin) [2], WDNM1 protein (which is involved in the
metastatic potential of adenocarcinomas in rats) [3], Kallmann syndrome
protein [4], and so on.

4DISULPHCORE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
4-disulphide core proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs encode 7 of the 8 well-conserved
Cys residues. Two iterations on OWL24.0 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 17 sequences was identified. Four
partial matches were also found, all of which fail to make significant 
matches with one or two motifs - in this fingerprint, the power of 
discrimination is compromised by the fact that the motifs are necessarily
short, because the sequence conservation is so poor.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 24 sequences, and 9
partial matches.
