TCOMPLEXTCP1
Protein folding is thought to be the sole result of properties inherent in 
polypeptide primary sequences. Sometimes, however, additional proteins are
required to mediate correct folding and subsequent oligomer assembly [1].
These 'helpers', or chaperones, bind to specific protein surfaces,
preventing incorrect folding and formation of non-functional structures [2].

The tailless complex polypeptide 1 (TCP-1) is a highly structurally
conserved molecular chaperone located in the cytosol [3]. The protein has
also been shown to bind to Golgi membranes and to microtubules, this latter
property suggesting a role in mitotic spindle formation in dividing cells
(especially in sperm, where it is highly abundant) [4]. TCP-1 forms a
double ring structure, similar to the 10kDa and 60kDa chaperonins, with
6-8 subunits per ring. The amino acid sequence is significantly similar to
the 60kDa chaperonin, and to TF55, a chaperone from the archaebacterium
Sulfolobus shibatae [4].

TCOMPLEXTCP1 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
T-complex polypeptide 1 proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, motifs 1-3 including
the N-terminal regions encoded by PROSITE patterns TCP1_1 (PS00750), TCP1_2
(PS00751) and TCP1_3 (PS00995). Two iterations on OWL24.0 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 27 sequences was
identified. Sixty four partial matches were also found: TCP1_MOUSE is a
TCP-1 fragment; the rest are 60kDa chaperonin sequences. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 218 sequences, and 13
partial matches.
