A1AGLPROTEIN
Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (orosomucin) (A1AG) is a major serum glycoprotein
of unknown physiological function [1]. It has been implicated in cellular
inflammation by increasing tissue factor expression and tumour necrosis
factor alpha secretion of monocytes. The protein is associated with 5
asparaginyl-linked complex oligosaccaride chains, the proportions and
identities of which are altered in several physiological and pathological
conditions [2]. A1AG is also clinically important as a non-specific drug
binder in serum [3]. For example, it has recently been shown to bind to
thalidomide, which may be involved in its inhibition of tumor necrosis
factor alpha production [4].

On the basis of sequence similarities, a functional/structural relationship
to the calycin superfamily has been postulated [5]; the similarity is only
weak, and the protein has consequently been classed as an outlier lipocalin.

The lipocalins are a diverse, interesting, yet poorly understood family of 
proteins composed, in the main, of extracellular ligand-binding proteins
displaying high specificity for small hydrophobic molecules [5]. Functions
of these proteins include transport of nutrients, control of cell regula-
tion, pheromone transport, cryptic colouration, and the enzymatic synthesis
of prostaglandins.

A1AGLPROTEIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
alpha-1-acid glycoproteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 includes the region
encoded by PROSITE pattern LIPOCALIN (PS00213), which contains the GxW 
motif near the start of the first beta-strand. Two iterations on OWL29.3
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising
12 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 9 sequences.
