GLHYDRLASE30
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC 3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition
of up to 60 different families [1-4] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/cgi-bin/lists?
glycosid.txt). Family 30 encompasses the mammalian glucosyl-ceramidases (EC
3.2.1.45).

Human acid beta-glucosidase (D-glucosyl-N-acylsphingosine glucohydrolase),
cleaves the glucosidic bonds of glucosylceramide and synthetic beta-
glucosides [5]. Any one of over 50 different mutations in the gene of
glucocerebrosidase have been found to affect activity of this hydrolase,
producing variants of Gaucher disease, the most prevalent lysosomal
storage disease [5,7]. 

GLHYDRLASE30 is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
family 30 glycosyl hydrolases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the N-terminal half of the alignment - motifs 1 and 4 each include
potential glycosylation sites; and motif 5 encodes a putative proton donor
site. A single iteration on OWL29.6 was required to reach convergence, no
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. Two partial
matches were found: CEF11E6 is a fragment that lacks the portion of sequence
bearing motifs 5 and 6; and I67792, a putative glucosylceramidase that
matches motifs 4, 5 and 6.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 5 sequences.
