MOVEMENT
The 30K protein of tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) appears to be involved in
transport of the virus from initially infected cells to adjacent cells,
possibly by modifying the function of the plasmodesmata. The protein binds
to single-stranded nucleic acid.

Comparison of the TMV 30K protein with the corresponding gene product of 
cucumber green mottle mosaic virus (CGMMV), and other tobamoviruses, reveals 
a protein of ~264 amino acids, with a conserved N-terminal two-thirds and 
a less-conserved C-terminal third [1]. The N-terminal portion contains two
particularly well-conserved regions, substitutions in one of which result
in temperature-sensitive cell-to-cell movement [1]. The C-terminal region
contains three sub-regions characterised by their distributions of charged
amino acid residues [1]. 

Patterns of amino acid changes within the movement gene products of a 
number of resistance-breaking strains of tomato mosaic virus indicate a 
predominance of substitutions involving a change in local charge [2]. These
findings suggest that an electrostatic interaction between a host factor 
and the 30K protein may be intrinsic to the function of the movement gene 
and/or resistance breakage [2]. 

MOVEMENT is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for viral
cell-cell transport proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 20 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved
regions spanning the N-terminal two-thirds of the alignment. Two iterations
on OWL30.2 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 22 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, MOVP_TMVCO, a TMV movement protein that matches motifs 1,3 and 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 25 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
