GLHYDRLASE11
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC 3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the
definition of around 60 different families [1-4] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/
cgi-bin/lists?glycosid.txt). 

The xylanases are shared between families 10 and 11 [5-7]: family 10
generally encompasses the larger, more complex xylanases that produce
smaller oligosaccharides; family 11 (endo-1,4-beta-xylanases (EC 3.2.1.8))
encompasses xylanases more specific for xylan [5,6]. The pH spectrum in
which these enzymes operate is quite diverse. It is thought that there are
at least five phylogenetically consistent groups within this family [7].

GLHYDRLASE11 is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
glycosyl hydrolase family 11. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 25 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment - motif 1 encodes most of
strand 6 and part of the adjacent loop; motif 2 spans some of the 
aforementioned loop and most of strand 7, and includes an active site Glu;
motif 3 encodes the N-terminus of strand 9; motifs 4 and 5 span strand 10,
leading into the adjacent loop; and motif 6 spans the C-terminus of helix 1
and most of the appended loop. Three iterations on OWL30.2 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 75 sequences was 
identified. Two partial matches were also found: S48865 is an endo-1,4-beta-
xylanase that fails to make a significant match with motif 4; and MGNENDOXYL
is a fragment that lacks the portion of sequence bearing the last 2 motifs.
(nb. MGNENDOBX is a fragment that matches only a single motif).

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 65 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
