THFDHDRGNASE
Enzymes that participate in the transfer of one-carbon units require
the coenzyme tetrahydrofolate (THF). Various reactions generate one-carbon
derivatives of THF, which can be interconverted between different oxidation
states by methylene-THF dehydrogenase, methenyl-THF cyclohydrolase and
formyl-THF synthetase [1,2]. The dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activities
are expressed by a variety of multifunctional enzymes, including the tri-
functional eukaryotic C1-tetrahydrofolate synthase [2]; a bifunctional
eukaryotic mitochondrial protein; and the bifunctional E.coli folD protein
[1,2].

Methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclo-
hydrolase share an overlapping active site [2], and as such are usually
located together in proteins, acting in tandem on the carbon-nitrogen bonds
of substrates other than peptide bonds.

THFDHDRGNASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase family. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 5 motifs: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, motifs 2
and 7 including the N- and C-terminal regions encoded by PROSITE patterns
THF_DHG_CYH_1 (PS00766) and THF_DHG_CYH_2 (PS00767). Two iterations on
OWL25.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 11 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, MTD1_YEAST, a methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase that shows
only slight similarity to the rest of the family.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 26 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
