HYALURONDASE
O-Glycosyl hydrolases (EC  3.2.1.-) are a widespread group of enzymes that
hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between
a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for
glycosyl hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition
of up to 60 different families [1-4] (http://expasy.hcuge.ch/cgi-bin/lists?
glycosid.txt). Family 56 encompasses a group of hyaluronidases (EC 3.2.1.35)
that includes venom hyaluronidases [5] and mammalian sperm surface proteins
(PH-20).

The venom of honeybees contains several biologically-active peptides and 
two enzymes, one of which is a hyaluronidase [5]. The amino acid sequence
of bee venom hyaluronidase contains 349 amino acids, and includes four
cysteines and a number of potential glycosylation sites [5]. The sequence
shows a high degree of similarity to PH-20, a membrane protein of mammalian
sperm involved in sperm-egg adhesion, supporting the view that hyaluronidases
play a role in fertilisation [5]. 

HYALURONDASE is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for bee
venom hyaluronidases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections spanning 
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those regions that 
characterise the venom hyaluronidases but distinguish them from other family
56 glycosyl hydrolases. A single iteration on OWL30.0 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
A single partial match was also found, a closely related C.elegans sequence
that matches motifs 3 and 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
