LVIRUSORF6
The nucleotide sequence of the genomic RNA of beet western yellow virus 
(BWYV) has been determined [1]. The sequence contains six long open reading
frames (ORFs). A cluster of three of these ORFs, including the coat protein 
cistron, display extensive sequence similarity to corresponding ORFs of a
second luteovirus, the PAV isolate of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) [2].

The nucleotide sequence of the RNA of potato leafroll luteovirus (PLRV) has
been determined [3,4]. The sequence contains six large ORFs. The 3' coding 
region encodes three polypeptides: a 23K coat protein, a 17K polypeptide
encoded in a different frame, and a 53K polypeptide, immediately following
the coat protein sequence in the same frame. It has been suggested that the
53K polypeptide is translated by readthrough of the amber termination codon
of the coat protein gene. The amino acid sequences encoded within the 3'
region show many similarities to analogous polypeptides of barley yellow
dwarf virus, PAV strain (BYDV), and beet western yellows virus (BWYV). 

LVIRUSORF6 is a 14-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
luteovirus ORF6 proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length. A single iteration on OWL30.1 was
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set. Several partial matches were found, all of which are
fragments and related viral proteins (especially ORF4 products from barley
yellow dwarf virus) that fail to match several motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 11 sequences, and 7
partial matches.
