RABESCORT
Rab proteins constitute a family of small GTPases that serve a regulatory
role in vesicular membrane traffic [1,2]; C-terminal geranylgeranylation is
crucial for their membrane association and function. This post-translational
modification is catalysed by Rab geranylgeranyl transferase (Rab-GGTase), a 
multi-subunit enzyme that contains a catalytic heterodimer and an accessory
component, termed Rab escort protein (REP)-1 [1,2]. REP-1 presents newly-
synthesised Rab proteins to the catalytic component, and forms a stable
complex with the prenylated proteins following the transfer reaction. 

cDNA cloning of component A of rat Rab geranylgeranyl transferase (REP)
confirms its resemblance to Rab3A guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor
(GDI) and its identity with the human choroideremia gene product [2]. A
genetic defect in REP underlies human choroideremia. Choroideraemia 
(or tapetochoroidal dystrophy) is a common form of X-linked blindness
characterised by progressive dystrophy of the choroid, retinal pigment
epithelium and retina [3-5]. 

RABESCORT is an 11-element fingerprint that provides a signature for Rab
escort (choroideraemia) proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
sections spanning the full alignment length, focusing on those regions that
characterise the REP proteins but distinguish them from the closely related
Rab GDI family. A single iteration on OWL30.2 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
A single partial match was found, A41937, a human choroideremia-linked
protein that lacks the portion of sequence bearing motifs 1-5.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
