MITP450
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1],
widely distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes
are involved in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous
compounds [2]. Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multi-component
electron transfer chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems. 

P450-containing monooxygenase systems primarily fall into 2 major classes:
bacterial/mitochondrial (type I); and microsomal (type II). Alternatively,
P450-containing systems can be classified according to the number of their
protein components [3]: mitochondrial and most bacterial P450 systems have
3 components - an FAD-containing flavoprotein (NADPH or NADH-dependent
reductase), an iron-sulphur protein, and P450; the eukaryotic microsomal 
P450 system contains 2 components - NADPH:P450 reductase (a flavoprotein
containing both FAD and FMN) and P450; and a soluble monooxygenase P450BM-3
from Bacillus megaterium exists as a single polypeptide chain with 2 
functional parts (the haem and flavin domains), and represents a unique 
bacterial one-component system - sequence and functional comparisons show
that these domains are more similar to P450 and the flavoprotein of the
microsomal 2-component P450 monooxygenase system than to the relevant
proteins of the 3-component system [4].

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450 
superfamily, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [5]. On the basis 
of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2 main groups, 
the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic 3-component 
systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all other known 
P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class. The data suggest that 
divergence of the P450 superfamily into B- and E-classes, and further 
divergence into stable P450 groups within the E-class, must be very ancient
and had occured before the appearance of eukaryotes. 

By contrast with the B-class, containing water-soluble haemoproteins, 
most E-class P450s are membrane-bound. Membranous P450s can be divided into
those from the inner mitochondrial membrane (mitochondrial type), and those
from membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (microsomal type). In the
mitochondrial P450-containing monooxygenase system, P450 can be reduced by
the 2Fe-2S iron-sulphur protein adrenodoxin, which can accept electrons
from NADPH-dependent adrenodoxin reductase. Both adrenodoxin and
adrenodoxin reductase are soluble, and located in the mitochondrial matrix 
[6]. Microsomal P450s depend on a single NADPH:P450 reductase; the P450s
and the reductase are located on the cytosolic side of the ER membrane, and
are anchored to the membrane by hydrophobic amino-terminal segments [7].  

To date, only animal mitochondrial P450s have been sequenced. P450scc
(CYP11A) is responsible for conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone [8].
P450s from the CYP11B subfamily catalyse 11-beta- or 18-hydroxylation of
steroids [9]. The CYP27 family contain enzymes involved in 25-hydroxylation
of vitamin D3 and sterol 26- and 27-hydroxylation [10]. P450 from pond
snail (CYP10) is highly similar to the mitochondrial P450, although its
cellular location is unknown [11].  

MITP450 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
mitochondrial P450s. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the 
N-terminal half of the alignment, focusing on those sections that 
characterise mitochondrial P450S but distinguish them from the rest of the
P450 superfamily. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 32 sequences was 
identified. Several partial matches were also found, the majority of which
are mitochondrial P450s. The fingerprint does not distinguish the CC24
P450s, which show distinct sequence differences from the rest of the
mitochondrial P450 proteins (see signature MITP450CC24). Most matches
with two motifs are noise. 
