THRMBOMODULN
Thrombomodulin (TM) is an endothelial cell thrombin receptor that converts
thrombin from a procoagulant to an anticoagulant enzyme [1,2]. The deduced
amino acid sequence of mouse thrombomodulin is similar to those determined 
for human and bovine proteins.

The thrombin-bound structures of peptide fragments from the fifth EGF-like
domain of thrombomodulin have been determined by NMR and transferred NOE
spectroscopy [3]. The peptides assume an EGF-like structure, with an anti-
parallel beta-sheet, which shows structural resilience in accommodating 
different numbers of residues within its disulphide loop [3]. The key
contacts with thrombin are hydrophobic interactions between the side chains
of residues Ile 414 and Ile 424 of thrombomodulin and a hydrophobic pocket
on the thrombin surface [3]. The unique beta-sheet structures of the bound
peptides are specified by the presence of disulphide bridges; corresponding
linear thrombomodulin fragments fold into sheet structures with different
backbone topologies [3].

THRMBOMODULN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
thrombomodulins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
the C-terminal half of the alignment length - motifs 1-3 span the first
EGF-like domain; motif 4 includes the C-terminus of the third EGF-like 
(putative calcium-binding) domain; motif 5 lies in the fourth EGF-like
domain; motif 6 lies in the sixth EGF-like domain; motif 7 includes the
sixth EGF-like (putative calcium-binding) domain; motif 8 spans the 
putative transmembrane domain; and motif 9 lies at the C-terminus. A single
iteration on OWL30.2 was required to reach convergence, no further sequences
being identified beyond the starting set. A single partial match was found,
MMU20217, a mouse fibrillin that matches motif 5 and 7. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
