XYLOSISMRASE
Xylose isomerase is an enzyme found in microorganisms that catalyses the
interconversion of D-xylose to D-xylulose [1]; it can also isomerise
D-ribose to D-ribulose and D-glucose to D-fructose. The enzyme is a homo-
tetramer, which is stabilised by cobalt, and requires magnesium for its
catalytic activity. Each subunit contains 2 domains: the core domain is a 
parallel alpha-beta barrel; the C-terminal domain is a loop structure
consisting of 5 helices and is involved in intermolecular contacts between
adjacent subunits [2]. The active site lies in a deep pocket near the
C-terminal ends of the strands of the barrel domain and includes residues
from a second subunit. The tetramer is effectively a dimer of "active"
dimers, the active sites being composed of residues from both subunits [2].

XYLOSISMRASE is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
xylose isomerases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 18 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
full alignment length - motif 1 includes the region encoded by PROSITE 
pattern  XYLOSE_ISOMERASE_1 (PS00172), which includes a conserved His
residue known to be involved in the catalytic mechanism of the enzyme [3];
and motif 6 includes the short conserved region encoded by PROSITE pattern
XYLOSE_ISOMERASE_2 (PS00173), which contains both a glutamic acid residue
that binds magnesium and a lysine involved with the enzyme catalytic
activity [2]. Two iterations on OWL29.2 were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 35 sequences was identified. A single
partial match was also found, ECDXI11, a xylose isomerase fragment from
E.coli.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 32 sequences.
