DNAPOLB
DNA is the biological information that instructs cells how to exist in an
ordered fashion: accurate replication is thus one of the most important
events in the life cycle of a cell. This function is performed by DNA-
directed DNA-polymerases by adding nucleotide triphosphate (dNTP) residues 
to the 5'-end of the growing chain of DNA, using a complementary DNA chain 
as a template. Small RNA molecules are generally used as primers for chain 
elongation, although terminal proteins may also be used. Even though there 
are 2 different methods of priming, these are mediated by 2 very similar 
polymerases with similar methods of chain elongation. 

There are 2 distinct classes of DNA-directed DNA-polymerase, A and B, 
defined according to sequence similarity criteria. All sequences in the B
family contain a characteristic DTDS motif, and possess many functional
domains, including a 5'-3' elongation domain, a 3'-5' exonuclease domain,
a DNA binding domain, and binding domains for both dNTP's and pyrophosphate.

DNAPOLB is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for class
B polymerases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs correspond to the conserved regions described by
Jung et al. [1], motif 3 containing the DTDS motif, which is universally
conserved in B DNA-polymerases (cf. PROSITE pattern DNA_POLYMERASE_B). 
Three iterations on OWL12.0 were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 40 sequences was identified. Three partial
matches were also found: of these, all are family members, but 2 (HS5DNAPOL
and S06416) are truncated sequences, HS5DNAPOL ending just after the
C-terminus of the second motif, and S06416 lacking the first motif;
DPO2_KLULA is a complete sequence, but fails to make a significant match
with motif 2.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 134 sequences, and 10
partial matches.
