GPCRCAMP
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

It has been suggested that the cAMP receptors coordinate aggregation of 
individual cells into a multicellular organism, and regulate the expression
of a large number of developmentally-regulated genes [2-4]. The amino acid
sequences of the receptors contain high proportions of hydrophobic residues
grouped into 7 domains, in a manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other
receptors believed to interact with G proteins. However, while a similar
3D framework has been proposed to account for this, there is no significant
sequence similarity between these families: the cAMP receptors thus bear
their own unique '7TM' signature.

GPCRCAMP is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
cAMP-type family of GPCRs. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs encode the 7 hydrophobic, putative
membrane-spanning regions. A single iteration on OWL21.1 was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the
starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 3 sequences.
