ANTSNTHASEII
Anthranilate synthase (ASase) is a tetrameric protein comprising 2 copies 
each of components I and II [1]. The protein catalyses the first step in 
the tryptophan biosynthetic pathway, namely the conversion of chorismate 
and an ammonium ion to anthranilate. Component I obtains this ion from 
ammonia, whereas component II obtains the ion from glutamine using the 
glutamine amidotransferase (GATase) activity [2]. In some bacteria, such as
E.coli, component II can be much larger than in other organisms, due to the
presence of phosphoribosyl-anthranilate transferase (PRTase) activity. 
This is the second step in tryptophan biosynthesis and results in the 
addition of 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate to anthranilate to create 
N-5'-phosphoribosyl-anthranilate. Some studies have suggested that the 
larger component II could have arisen by gene fusion [2], a hypothesis 
supported by the fact that the 2 activities are found in discrete domains 
that are physically separated in the 3D model.

ANTSNTHASEII is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
anthranilate synthase type II components. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: motif 2 is highly conserved in 
all GATases; and motif 3 spans the Gln binding site (cf. PROSITE pattern
GATASE_TYPE_I). Three iterations on OWL17.1 were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 37 sequences was 
identified, including a family of para-aminobenzoate synthases, which 
possess GATase activity and are similar to the type II components [3]. 
Several partial matches were also found, including an ASase fragment, and a
subfamily of enzymes involved in pyrimidine and arginine biosynthesis - all
of these possess GATase activity, and hence most match motifs 2 and 3.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 55 sequences, and 74
partial matches.
