P450
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1],
widely distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes
are involved in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous
compounds [2]. Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multicomponent
electron transfer chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems. 

P450-containing monooxygenase systems primarily fall into 2 major classes:
bacterial/mitochondrial (type I), and microsomal (type II). Alternatively,
P450-containing systems can be classified according to the number of their
protein components [3]: mitochondrial and most bacterial P450 systems have
3 components - an FAD-containing flavoprotein (NADPH or NADH-dependent
reductase), an iron-sulphur protein, and P450; the eukaryotic microsomal 
P450 system contains 2 components - NADPH:P450 reductase (a flavoprotein
containing both FAD and FMN) and P450; and a soluble monooxygenase P450BM-3
from Bacillus megaterium exists as a single polypeptide chain with 2 
functional parts (the haem and flavin domains), and represents a unique 
bacterial one-component system - sequence and functional comparisons show
that these domains are more similar to P450 and the flavoprotein of the
microsomal 2-component P450 monooxygenase system than to the relevant
proteins of the 3-component system [4].

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450 super-
family, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [5]. But evolution of
P450s is not restricted to phylogeny; phylogenetic analysis can only be
applied to certain groups of orthologous genes (e.g. CYP1A1, 1A2, 2E1, 7,
11A1, 11B1, 17, 19, 21A1, 27 and 51). Some P450 gene clusters (e.g. the
mammalian CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, rat CYP2D cluster, house fly CYP6A and CYP6C 
gene clusters, CYP13A cluster in Caenorhabditis elegans) have seemingly 
appeared via gene duplication events and should be considered paralogous.
In P450 gene subfamilies such as CYP2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, 3A, 4A and 52A, which,
presumably, have arisen through numerous species-specific gene duplication
and conversion events, orthologue assignments are impossible. This kind of
evolution can be concerned with intraspecific specialisation. Gene fusion
events can lead to the appearance of a one-component P450 system. It has
been hypothesised that the Fusarium oxysporum P450nor (CYP55) gene is a
xenologous gene of prokaryotic origin [6]. Another example of a much more
ancient horizontal gene transfer event could be the integration of former
mitochondrial genes (families CYP11 and CYP27) into the nuclear genome.
Finally, convergent evolution cannot be ignored, such as witnessed in the
membrane-binding anchors or in the substrate-binding sites of P450 enzymes
from the different families, which have similar substrate specificity. 

On the basis of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2
main groups, the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic
3-component systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all
other known P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class. The data
suggest that divergence of the P450 superfamily into B- and E-classes, and
further divergence into stable P450 groups within the E-class, must be very
ancient and had occured before the appearance of eukaryotes. 

The 3D structures of several P450s have now been reported (P450cam [7],
the P450 domain of P450BM-3 [8], P450terp [9] and P450eryF [10]). The P450
molecule is an alpha/beta protein, shaped like a triangular prism; the
overall structure can be roughly divided into alpha-rich ('right side') and
beta-rich ('left side') domains [7-10]. However, this division appears to
be artificial since the alpha- and beta-rich domains comprise discontinuous
assemblies of secondary structure segments and do not constitute independent
folding units. Although the sequence identity between any 2 P450s with known
3D structure reaches only 20% or less, the overall topology of the proteins
is similar, with some differences in the orientations of various helices.
The most dramatic variations between P450 structures are found in regions
responsible for substrate binding and access. 

The uneven distribution of the various P450 genes in living organisms,
coupled with disparate efforts on genome sequencing, causes serious bias
problems: e.g., there are 48 CYP genes in rat, 3 genes in S.cerevisiae, and
a unique P450 in B.subtilis; the CYP2C subfamily contains more than 30 P450
genes, while P450cam is the only representative of the CYP101 family. 

P450 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the P450
superfamily. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 59
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions within the 'helix-
rich' domain - motif 1 spans the major part of the I helix, which is
proposed to be central to the catalytic function of P450s (residues of this
helix are involved in substrate binding and are thought to play a role in
proton delivery and dioxygen binding [7]); motifs 2 and 3 correspond to
the well-conserved J and K helices, respectively; motifs 4 and 5 are
adjacent, spanning the invariant Cys residue that provides the haem iron
thiolate ligand (cf. PROSITE pattern CYTOCHROME_P450) - motif 5 spans the
N-terminus of the L helix. Four iterations on OWL26.0 were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 354 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found - most of those
matching only 2 motifs are noise. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 443 sequences, and 271
partial matches.
