NMDARECEPTOR
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are members of the glutamate receptor
channel superfamily, which mediate most of the fast excitory synaptic
transmissions in the central nervous system. The superfamily consists of 3
subtypes: kainate receptors, AMPA receptors and NMDA receptors. The NMDA
receptor is highly permeable to calcium ions and plays a key role in the
plasticity of synapses, which is believed to underlie memory and learning,
as well as the development of the nervous system. Abnormal activation has
been suggested to lead to neuronal cell death observed in many acute and
chronic disorders such as ischemia, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and 
Huntington's disease [1].

NMDA receptors possess 4 transmembrane (TM) helical domains in the C-
terminal half of the sequence and require both glycine and glutamate for
activation, resulting in influx of calcium ions into the cell [1]. The
receptors can also be activated by polyamine, they can be blocked by
magnesium ions, inhibited by zinc ions, and modulated by arachidonic acid.
Other non-NMDA glutamate receptors (e.g., kainate) are structurally similar
to NMDA receptors, but are functionally distinct, possibly as a result of
amino acid substitutions at important positions in the sequence.

NMDARECEPTOR is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
NMDA receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: motif 1 encodes a conserved hydrophilic region, and motifs 2-5
encode the 4 TM helices. Two iterations on OWL20.1 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 5 sequences was 
identified. Several partial matches were also found, including an NMDA
receptor fragment and 11 kainate receptors, which belong to the glutamate
receptor superfamily.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 10 sequences, and 19
partial matches.
