HUDSXLRNA
Many eukaryotic proteins that are either known or thought to bind single-
stranded RNA contain one or more copies of a putative RNA-binding domain
of about 90 amino acids [1,2]. This region has been found in, for example,
heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins, small nuclear ribonucleoproteins,
pre-RNA and mRNA associated proteins, Drosophila sex determination and elav
proteins, human paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis antigen HuD, and many
others.

The structure of an RNA-binding domain of Drosophila Sex-lethal (Sxl) 
protein has been determined using multi-dimensional hetero-nuclear NMR [3].
Sxl contains two RNP consensus-type RNA-binding domains (RBDs) - the
determined structure represents the second of these (RBD-2) [3]. The
calculated intermediate-resolution family of structures exhibits the beta-
alpha-beta/beta-alpha-beta tertiary fold found in other RBD-containing
proteins [3].

HUDSXLRNA is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
HuD/Elav/Sxl family of RNA-binding proteins. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the N-terminal half of the alignment - motif 3
encodes strand 1; motif 4 includes helix 1; and motif 5 includes strand 2.
Two iterations on OWL30.2 were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 30 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are fragments or ribonucleoprotein homologues
that fail to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 30 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
