ADENYLTKNASE
Adenylate kinases (ADK) are phosphotransferases that catalyse the 
reversible reaction AMP + MgATP = ADP + MgADP, an essential reaction
for many processes in living cells. Two ADK isozymes have been identified
in mammalian cells - these specifically bind AMP and favour binding to ATP 
over other nucleotide triphosphates (AK1 is cytosolic and AK2 is located
in the mitochondria). A third ADK has been identified in bovine heart and 
human cells [1] - this is a mitochondrial GTP:AMP phosphotransferase, also 
specific for the phosphorylation of AMP, but can only use GTP or ITP as 
substrate [2]. ADK has also been identified in different bacterial species
and in yeast [3]. Two further enzymes are known to be related to the ADK 
family, i.e. yeast uridine monophosphokinase and slime mould UMP-CMP kinase.

Within the ADK family there are several conserved regions, including the 
ATP-binding domains. One of the most conserved areas includes an Arg
residue, whose modification inactivates the enzyme, together with an Asp
that resides in the catalytic cleft of the enzyme and participates in a 
salt bridge. 

ADENYLTKNASE is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
adenylate kinases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 6 sequences: motif 3 encodes the region containing the conserved Arg
and Asp residues (cf. PROSITE pattern ADENYLATE_KINASE (PS00113)). Five
iterations on OWL17.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 25 sequences was identified, including adenylate
kinases, yeast uridine monophosphokinase, slime mould cytidylate kinase
and blood fluke nucleoside-phosphate kinase. 

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 59 sequences, and 10
partial matches.
