GMCSFACTOR
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GMCSF) is a cytokine
that acts in hematopoiesis to stimulate growth and differentiation of
hematopoietic precursor cells from various lineages (including granulocytes,
macrophages, eosinophils and erythrocytes) [1,2]. GMCSF is a glycoprotein
of ~120 residues that contains 4 conserved cysteines that participate in
disulphide bond formation.

The crystal structure of recombinant human GMCSF has been determined to
2.8A resolution [2]. There are two molecules in the asymmetric unit, which
are related by an approximate non-crystallographic 2-fold axis. The overall
structure, which is highly compact and globular with a predominantly
hydrophobic core, is characterised by a 4-alpha-helix bundle. The helices
are arranged in a left-handed anti-parallel fashion, with two overhand
connections. Within the connections is a two-stranded anti-parallel
beta-sheet. The tertiary structure has a topology similar to that of
porcine growth factor and interferon-beta. Most of the proposed critical
regions for receptor binding are located on a continuous surface at one end
of the molecule that includes the C terminus [2].

GMCSFACTOR is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factors. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning the full alignment length - motif 1 spans
the first helix; motif 2 lies in the loop between strand 1 and helix 3;
motif 3 spans helices 3 and 4; motif 4 encompasses helix 5; motif 5 spans
the second strand and the loop preceding it; and motif 6 spans helix 6.
Two iterations on OWL29.2 were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 15 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 9 sequences.
