ELICITIN
Elicitins are a family of small, highly-conserved proteins secreted by
phytopathogenic fungi belonging to the phytophthora species [1,2]. They are
toxic proteins responsible for inducing a necrotic and systemic hyper-
sensitive response in plants from the solanaceae and cruciferae families.
Leaf necrosis provides immediate control of fungal invasion and induces
systemic acquired resistance; both responses mediate basic protection
against subsequent pathogen inoculation.

Members of this family share a high level of sequence similarity, but they
differ in net charge, dividing them into two classes: alpha and beta [1,3].
Alpha-elicitins are highly acidic, with a valine residue at position 13,
whereas beta-elicitins are basic, with a lysine at the same position.
Residue 13 is known to be involved in the control of necrosis and, being
exposed, is thought to be involved in ligand/receptor binding [3,4].
Phenotypically, the two classes can be distinguished by their necrotic
properties: beta-elicitins are 100-fold more toxic and provide better
subsequent protection [1,2].

ELICITIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for elicitins.
The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the
motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full alignment length  
- motif 1 spans the first alpha-helix, which houses the exposed residue 13; 
motif 2 incorporates the second helix; motif 3 spans helices 3 and 4; motif
4 incorporates two anti-parallel beta-strands and the turn between them; and 
motif 5 spans the fifth helix. Two iterations on OWL30.2 were required to 
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 14 sequences was 
identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 14 sequences.
