CITRTSNTHASE
Citrate synthase is a member of a small family of enzymes that can directly
form a carbon-carbon bond without the presence of metal ion cofactors [1].
It catalyses the first reaction in the Krebs' cycle [1], the condensation
of acetyl coenzyme A and oxaloacetate to form citrate and coenzyme A, an
important function in both energy generation and carbon assimilation [2].
The reaction proceeds via a non-covalently bound intermediate citryl-
coenzyme A intermediate, and is thus thought to be a 2-step process [1]. 

The enzyme exists as a globular homodimer (a hexamer in prokaryotes), which 
is almost completely helical (20 helices per monomer), which is unusual for
such a large enzyme [3]. Each monomer is divided into a large and a small 
domain, the cleft between these domains forming the active site where both 
citrate and acetyl-coenzyme A have been shown to bind [3]. The enzyme
undergoes a conformational change upon binding of the oxaloacetate, whereby
the active site cleft closes over [3].

CITRTSNTHASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
citrate synthases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 7 sequences: motifs 1-6 were drawn from conserved regions at, or in the
vicinity of, the active site - motif 4 includes the region encoded by
PROSITE pattern CITRATE_SYNTHASE (PS00480), the conserved His of which has
been implicated in the catalytic activity. Two iterations on OWL22.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 21
sequences was identified. A subfamily of partial matches was also found,
most of which are citrate synthase fragments from crystallographic studies,
and one is a citrate synthase from Mycobacterium smegmatis, which fails to
make significant matches with motifs 1, 2 and 5.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 52 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
