RECA
The recA protein is a multifunctional enzyme that plays a role in 
homologous recombination, DNA repair and induction of the SOS response [1].
In homologous recombination, the protein functions as a DNA-dependent 
ATPase, promoting synapsis, heteroduplex formation and strand exchange
between homologous DNAs [1,2]. RecA has also been thought to act as a DNA-
dependent protease, cleaving specific regulatory proteins (including
bacteriophage repressors) to initiate the SOS response [1]: more recently, 
however, it has been considered to act as a protease cofactor that
promotes autodigestion of the lexA product and phage repressors. The
proteolytic inactivation of the lexA repressor by an activated form of recA
may cause a derepression of the 20 or so genes involved in the SOS 
response, which regulates DNA repair, induced mutagenesis, delayed cell
division and prophage induction in response to DNA damage [1]. The recA
protein is well conserved in nature, as might be expected for a protein
involved in the regulation of such fundamental cellular processes [1].

RECA is an 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the recA
proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 8
sequences: the motifs span virtually the full alignment length, motif 4
including the nonapeptide encoded by PROSITE pattern RECA (PS00321). Five
iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 46 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, most of which are recA protein fragments.
