TISSUEFACTOR
Tissue Factor (TF) [1,2] is a cell-surface receptor that initiates blood 
coagulation by forming a complex with circulating factor VII or VIIa. The
mature protein comprises around 250 residues, which encompass an extra-
cellular domain of about 210 residues bounded by 2 disulphide bridges, a
transmembrane (TM) domain, and a short C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. There
is no close sequence similarity between TF and other proteins, although
structural similarity of the TF extracellular domain to the interferon 
gamma-receptors and cytokine receptor family has been suggested [3,4].

The tripeptide sequence WKS is repeated 3 times in the extracellular domain
of human TF. Site-directed mutagenesis studies suggest that, in the first
repeat, the W may contribute to a hydrophobic core rather than have a 
direct functional involvement. Mutations in the second and third repeats, 
however, showed no detectable structural alterations, but did reflect 
diminished function. It is inferred, therefore, that the WKS motif is 
associated with a functional site, and the K has been identified as the 
functionally important residue [5].

TISSUEFACTOR is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
the tissue factor proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: motifs 2 and 3 encode the first disulphide bridge
(cf. PROSITE pattern TISSUE_FACTOR (PS00621)); motifs 4-7 span the extra-
cellular domain; and motif 8 spans the TM domain - the 3 WKS repeats reside
in motifs 1-3. A single iteration on OWL17.0 was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 5 sequences.
