ANPEROXIDASE
Peroxidases are haem-containing enzymes that use hydrogen peroxide as
the electron acceptor to catalyse a number of oxidative reactions.
Most haem peroxidases follow the reaction scheme:

Fe(3+) + H2O2            --> [Fe(4+)=O]R' (Compound I) + H2O
[Fe(4+)=O]R' + substrate --> [Fe(4+)=O]R (Compound II) + oxidised substrate
[Fe(4+)=O]R  + substrate -->  Fe(3+) + H2O + oxidised substrate

In this mechanism, the enzyme reacts with one equivalent of H2O2 to give 
[Fe(4+)=O]R' (compound I). This is a two-electron oxidation/reduction 
reaction where H2O2 is reduced to water and the enzyme is oxidised. One 
oxidising equivalent resides on iron, giving the oxyferryl [Fe(4+)=O] 
intermediate, while in many peroxidases the porphyrin (R) is oxidised to 
the porphyrin pi-cation radical (R'). Compound I then oxidises an organic 
substrate to give a substrate radical [1].

Peroxidases are found in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. On the basis
of sequence similarity, a number of animal haem peroxidases can be
categorised as members of a superfamily: myeloperoxidase (MPO); eosinophil
peroxidase (EPO); lactoperoxidase (LPO); thyroid peroxidase (TPO);
prostaglandin H synthase (PGHS); and peroxidasin [2-4]. MPO plays a major
role in the oxygen-dependent microbicidal system of neutrophils. It has
also been found that certain drugs can be oxidised to reactive metabolites
by the MPO of monocytes, which may play a role in the development of 
idiosyncratic drug reactions [5]. EPO from eosinophilic granulocytes 
participates in immunological reactions, and potentiates tumor necrosis 
factor (TNF) production and hydrogen peroxide release by human monocyte-
derived macrophages [6]. In the main, MPO (and possibly EPO) utilises Cl-
ions and H2O2 to form hypochlorous acid (HOCl), which can effectively kill
bacteria or parasites. In secreted fluids, LPO catalyses the oxidation of 
thiocyanate ions (SCN-) by H2O2, producing the weak oxidising agent 
hypothiocyanite (OSCN-), which has bacteriostatic activity [7]. TPO uses 
I- ions and H2O2 to generate iodine, and plays a central role in the 
biosynthesis of thyroid hormones T(3) and T(4). TPO contains 3 additional 
C-terminal domains, which are similar to C4b-beta 2 glycoprotein, the 
EGF-LDL receptor, and a transmembrane domain, respectively [8]. Peroxidasin
is a fusion protein combining a peroxidase domain with 6 leucine-rich 
regions, four Ig loops, a thrombospondin/procollagen homology and an 
amphipathic alpha-helix [4]. PGHS is a membrane-bound enzyme catalysing 
the first two steps in prostaglandin (PG), thromboxane and prostacyclin 
biosynthesis: the first step involves oxygenation of polyunsaturated fatty 
acids to hydroperoxy endoperoxides (cyclooxygenase activity); the second 
step involves reduction of the hydroperoxy endoperoxides to hydroxy 
endoperoxides (peroxidase activity). The peroxidase activity of PGHS also 
oxidises xenobiotics to reactive derivatives [3].

To date, the 3D structures of MPO and PGHS have been reported. MPO is a 
homodimer: each monomer consists of a light (A or B) and a heavy (C or D) 
chain resulting from post-translational excision of 6 residues from the 
common precursor. Monomers are linked by a single inter-chain disulphide. 
Each monomer includes a bound calcium ion [9]. PGHS exists as a symmetric 
dimer, each monomer of which consists of 3 domains: an N-terminal epidermal
growth factor (EGF) like module; a membrane-binding domain; and a large
C-terminal catalytic domain containing the cyclooxygenase and the peroxidase 
active sites. The catalytic domain shows striking structural similarity to 
MPO. The cyclooxygenase active site, which catalyses the formation of 
prostaglandin G2 (PGG2) from arachidonic acid, resides at the apex of a 
long hydrophobic channel, extending from the membrane-binding domain to the
centre of the molecule. The peroxidase active site, which catalyses the
reduction of PGG2 to PGH2, is located on the other side of the molecule, at
the haem binding site [10]. Both MPO and the catalytic domain of PGHS are 
mainly alpha-helical, 19 helices being identified as topologically and
spatially equivalent; PGHS contains 5 additional N-terminal helices that
have no equivalent in MPO. In both proteins, three Asn residues in each
monomer are glycosylated.

ANPEROXIDASE is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
animal haem peroxidases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 8 sequences: motif 2 contains the invariant active site 
("distal") His and a conserved Asp residue, which participates in Ca(2+)
binding in MPO [9] (cf. PROSITE pattern PEROXIDASE_2 (PS00436)); motif 4 
contains the invariant "distal" Arg (on the distal side of the haem, His 
and Arg residues are likely to participate directly in the catalytic 
mechanism, in a manner analogous to the distal His and Arg of the 
non-homologous enzyme cytochrome c peroxidase); motif 6 contains the 
invariant "proximal" His residue at position 9, which serves the axial 
ligand of the haem iron (cf. PROSITE pattern PEROXIDASE_1 (PS00435)). Three
iterations on OWL27.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a 
true set comprising 42 sequences was identified. Several partial matches 
were also found: squid peroxidase-like proteins PN0667 and JN0867 failed to
match motif 6; C.elegans sequence CEF49E125 lacks motifs 6 and 8; C.elegans
sequence CET05B9 lacks motifs 2, 6 and 7; HUMTPOC is a TPO fragment lacking
the portion of sequence bearing motif 1 and the three C-terminal motifs;
PERL_HUMAN is an LPO fragment lacking the four N-terminal motifs; and S53511
is a cuttlefish peroxidase fragment missing the two N-terminal and three
C-terminal motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 33 sequences, and 12
partial matches.
