CALICVIRUSNS
Caliciviruses are positive-stranded ssRNA viruses that cause gastroenteritis 
[1]. The calicivirus genome contains two open reading frames, ORF1 and ORF2
[2,3]. ORF1 encodes a non-structural polypeptide, which has RNA helicase,
cysteine protease and RNA polymerase activity. The regions of the poly-
protein in which these activities lie are similar to proteins produced by
the picornaviruses [2,4]. ORF2 encodes a structural protein [2]. Two
different families of caliciviruses can be distinguished on the basis of
sequence similarity, namely those classified as small round structured 
viruses (SRSVs) and those classed as non-SRSVs. 

CALICVIRUSNS is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
non-structural polyprotein of caliciviridae. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of four sequences: the motifs were drawn from the
central to C-terminal portion of the alignment - motifs 1 and 2 lie within
the helicase region; motif 3 resides in the protease domain, and includes 
a catalytic Cys residue; motifs 4 and 5 lie at the N- and C-terminal
extremities of the RNA-directed RNA-polymerase domain; and motif 6 lies 
towards the C-terminus. Two iterations on OWL30.1 were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 15 sequences was 
identified. Numerous partial matches were also found, all of which are 
calicivirus polyprotein fragments that lack portions of sequence bearing 
one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 216 sequences, and 
5 partial matches.
