FATTYACIDBP
The Fatty Acid-Binding Proteins (FABPs) are a family of proteins that are
principally located in the cytosol and are characterised by the ability to
bind to hydrophobic ligands, such as fatty acids, retinol, retinoic acid, 
bile salts and pigments [1,2]. Recently, a number of family members have
been identified that are secreted, such as gastrotropin and mammary-derived
growth inhibitor. The family is implicated in general lipid metabolism,
acting as intracellular transporters of hydrophobic metabolic intermediates
and as carriers of lipids between membranes [1-3]. 

The FABPs exhibit a high degree both of sequence and structural similarity.
They are small, 12-18kDa, soluble proteins composed of 110-160 residues. 
Their crystal structures show them to be 10-stranded anti-parallel beta-
barrels with a +1,+1 topology, which wrap around an internal cavity to 
form a ligand binding site [2,3]. The anti-parallel beta-barrel fold is also
exploited by the lipocalins, which function similarly by binding small
hydrophobic molecules. Similarity at the sequence level, however, is less
obvious, being confined to a single short N-terminal motif.

FATTYACIDBP is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
fatty acid-binding proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 41 sequences: motif 1 includes the GxW triplet, which forms 
part of the first beta-strand and corresponds to a similar motif in the 
sequence of lipocalins, where it has the same conformation and location 
within the protein fold [4] (cf. PROSITE pattern FABP (PS00214)); motif 2 
spans the C-terminus of strand 3 and includes strand 4; and motif 3 encodes
strands 9 and 10. Seven iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 85 sequences was 
identified. Six partial matches were also found, all of which are true 
family members that fail to make significant matches with motif 2.
