INTERLEUKIN6
Interleukin-6 (IL6), also refered to as B-cell differentiation factor-2
(BSF-2) and interferon beta-2, is a cytokine involved in a wide variety of
biological functions [1]: it induces the final maturation of B-cells into
immunoglobulin-producing cells [1]; and it induces nerve cell
differentiation, and myeloma and plasmacytoma growth [1,2].

IL6 has a compact, globular fold (similar to other cytokines), stablised by
2 disulphide bonds [3]. One half of the structure is dominated by a 4 alpha-
helix bundle with a left-handed twist [4]; the helices are anti-parallel,
with 2 overhand connections, which fall into a 2-stranded anti-parallel beta-
sheet. The fourth alpha-helix is important to the biological activity of 
the molecule [2].

INTERLEUKIN6 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
interleukin-6 cytokines. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 encodes the first
alpha helix; motif 2 encodes part of the first beta strand; motif 3 spans
part of the first beta strand and the second helix, and corresponds to
the region encoded by PROSITE pattern INTERLEUKIN_6 (PS00254), the 2 Cys
residues of which form a disulphide bond; and motif 4 spans the fourth
helix. Two iterations on OWL26.3 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 14 sequences was identified. A single
partial match (MGF_CHICK) was also found, a myelomonocytic growth factor
that matches motifs 3 and 4.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 15 sequences.
