PHDIOXRDTASE
Flavoprotein pyridine nucleotide cytochrome reductases [1] (FPNCR) catalyse
the interchange of reducing equivalents between one-electron carriers and
the two-electron-carrying nicotinamide dinucleotides. The enzymes include
ferredoxin:NADP+ reductases (FNR) [2]; plant and fungal NAD(P)H:nitrate
reductases [1]; NADH:cytochrome b5 reductases; NADPH:P450 reductases;
NADPH:sulfite reductases; nitric oxide synthases; phthalate dioxygenase
reductase [3]; and various other flavoproteins.

Phthalate dioxygenase reductase (PDR) is a member of family of
FPNCR/[2Fe-2S] ferredoxin fusion proteins, found in flavobacteria, that
participate in oxidative metabolism of a variety of substrates. Other
family members are vanillate demethylase reductase [4]; phenoxybenzoate
dioxygenase; and pentachlorophenol 4-monooxygenase. All of contain a
[2Fe-2S] ferredoxin domain fused to the C-terminus of an FPNCR domain. The
direction of electron flow is from flavin to the [2Fe-2S] center. By
contrast with most FPNCRs, PDR binds FMN instead of FAD.

The 3D-structure of PDR has been solved [3]. The overall fold of the FPNCR
module is similar to that of ferredoxin:NADP+ reductase [2]; the FMN-binding
domain (N-terminal) has the topology of an anti-parallel beta-barrel; and
the NAD(P)-binding domain (C-terminal) has the topology of a classical
pyridine dinucleotide-binding fold (i.e., a central parallel beta-sheet
flanked by 2 helices on each side).

PHDIOXRDTASE is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
phthalate dioxygenase reductase family. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn solely from the
FPNCR domain - motifs 1-5 encode the beta-barrel, and motifs 6-8 span the
NAD(H)-binding domain. Motif 1 corresponds to the first motif of the FPNCR
signature; motifs 3 and 4 are involved in binding the isoalloxazine ring
and the phosphate group of FMN, respectively (cf. FPNCR motifs 2 and 3);
motif 6 includes residues involved in binding the diphosphate group of the
pyridine nucleotide (cf. FPNCR motif 4); and motif 8 contains a conserved
Cys residue that may interact with NAD(H) and is necessary for efficient
electron transfer (cf. FPNCR motif 8) [5]. Two iterations on OWL26.2 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 6
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 8 sequences, and 9
partial matches.
