DHBDHDRGNASE
Iron is essential for growth in both bacteria and mammals. Controlling the
amount of free iron in solution is often used as a tactic by hosts to limit
invasion of pathogenic microbes; binding iron tightly within protein
molecules can accomplish this. Such iron-protein complexes include haem in
blood, lactoferrin in tears/saliva and transferrin in blood plasma. Some
bacteria express surface receptors to capture eukaryotic iron-binding
compounds, while others have evolved siderophores to scavenge iron from
iron-binding host proteins [1].

The absence of free iron molecules in the surrounding environment triggers 
transcription of gene clusters that encode both siderophore-synthesis 
enzymes, and receptors that recognise iron-bound siderophores [2]. Classic
examples are the enterobactin/enterochelin clusters found in Escherichia
coli and Salmonella spp., although similar moieties in other pathogens have 
been identified. The enzymic machinery that produces vibrionectin in Vibrio
cholera is such a homologue [3].

EntA, a 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate dehydrogenase enzyme, is involved
in the third stage of enterobactin biosynthesis and converts isochorismate 
to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Deletion studies involving EntA- 
mutants have shown that it is essential for virulence [4].

DHBDHDRGNASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for  
2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate dehydrogenases. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning the full alignment length. A single
iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
