TYPE4SSCAGX
Helicobacter pylori is a Gram-negative flagellated pathogen that causes   
gastric and peptic ulcers. In its chronic state, it can also contribute to 
gastric cancer development, through elicitation of a huge host inflammatory 
response [1]. It has been suggested that activated leukocytes may be 
responsible for tissue damage, and that phagocytes contribute to 
carcinogenesis. The Helicobacter genome contains several virulence factors;
clinical strains may be divided roughly into two types, depending on 
whether they contain the functional cag pathogenicity island. Type I strains 
can cause malignant disease, as they possess the active cag island and 
its associated exotoxin, CagA.

The bacterium makes use of a type IV secretion system similar in mechanism 
to the conjugation machine of Agrobacterium tumefaciens [2]. These machines
secrete three different types of substrate: DNA conjugation intermediates,
as in A.tumefaciens; multimeric proteins such as the pertussis toxin of
Bordetella pertussis; and the CagA protein of H.pylori [3]. CagA has been
linked to the more severe forms of gastric ulcers and duodenal cancers [3].
Both CagA and the secretion system apparatus are encoded in the large
pathogenicity island, termed cag [3], possessed by the malignant disease-
causing type I bacterial strains.

CagX is found on this pathogenicity island; mutants lacking the gene fail
to induce pathogenicity in an infected mouse model [4]. CagX is thought to
play a role in the process of conjugation [4].

TYPE4SSCAGX is a 13-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
type IV secretion system CagX conjugation proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning the full alignment length (~460 amino
acids). A single iteration on SPTR37_15f was required to reach convergence,
no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
