ALPHAGIARDIN
Giardia lamblia is a protozoan parasite of numerous mammals, including 
humans [1]. It belongs to the phylum Sarcomastigophora, and is amongst the 
most primitive eukaryotes identified to date. It is the main causative agent
of global protozoan diarrhoea, and severe infection can cause giardiasis.
G.lamblia exists as either trophozoites that live in the small intestine of
the host and cause the disease symptoms, or cysts that are passed in the
faeces of the host and infect the next host through contaminated water or
food [1]. 

Trophozoites exhibit antigenic variation to evade the host immune system, 
expressing a number of virulence factors to aid adherence and invasion of 
the small intestine endothelium [2]. The molecular basis for its antigenic 
variation has been well characterised, and it is believed that its 
phenotypic heterogeneity arises from sexual reproduction [2]. One of the
major virulence factors of G.lamblia is giardin, an antigen expressed 
as several variants on the trophozoite surface [3]. Alpha giardin is the 
predominant immunotypic giardin present, although beta and gamma giardin 
have also been identified [3]. 

A recent study on the biochemical properties of alpha giardin has
identified the protein as an annexin, a eukaryotic protein widely conserved
amongst plants and animals. Purified alpha giardin associates with 
multimellar phosphatidyl serine-containing vesicles in a Ca2+-dependent
manner, and has very low sequence similarity with human annexin XIX [4].

ALPHAGIARDIN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
alpha giardins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length (~290 amino acids). A single iteration on SPTR40_20f was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set. 
