LANCFRANKIA
The LanC-like protein superfamily encompasses a highly divergent group of
peptide-modifying enzymes, including the eukaryotic and bacterial 
lanthionine synthetase C-like proteins (LanC) [1-3]; subtilin biosynthesis
protein SpaC from Bacillus subtilis [4,5]; epidermin biosynthesis protein
EpiC from Staphylococcus epidermidis [6]; nisin biosynthesis protein NisC 
from Lactoccocus lactis [7-9]; GCR2 from Arabidopsis thaliana [10]; and
many others.  

The 3D structure of the lantibiotic cyclase from L.lactis has been
determined by X-ray crystallography to 2.5A resolution [11]. The globular
structure is characterised by an all-alpha fold, in which an outer ring
of helices envelops an inner toroid composed of 7 shorter, hydrophobic 
helices. This 7-fold hydrophobic periodicity has led several authors to 
claim various members of the family, including eukaryotic LanC-1 and GCR2,
to be novel G protein-coupled receptors [10,12]; some of these claims have
since been corrected [2,13,14].

The lanthionine synthetase C family of proteins from the Frankia sp. of
bacteria [15] form a tight cluster within the wider LanC-like superfamily,
predictably showing greater similarity to other bacterial LanC-like proteins
that to those of eukaryotic origin.

LANCFRANKIA is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for Frankia
sp. LanC-like proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise the Frankia sp. LanC-like proteins but distinguish them
from closely related members of the LanC-like protein superfamily. Two
iterations on SPTR55_38f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 10 sequences was identified. Numerous partial matches
were also found, all of which are members of the LanC-like superfamily that
fail to make significant matches with one or more motifs.
