VACJLIPOPROT
Pathogenic bacterial lipoproteins play a major part in the virulence of 
several microbial species [1]. They are a diverse group of proteins found 
in both Gram-negative and Gram-positive microbes, and the functions they 
carry out are varied [1]: some act as antibiotic resistance enzymes and are 
cleaved, as needed, from their lipid moiety; others form part of high-
affinity transport systems in enterobacteria. In some pathogens that 
attack the host mucosal surfaces, lipoproteins are utilised as adhesions, 
and recently there has been speculation that some may even form part of a 
rudimentary signalling/sensory pathway in certain prokaryotes [1]. 

Lipoproteins in Gram-negative microbes also act as structural stabilisers,
forming non-covalent bonds with peptidoglycan on the outer membrane of the 
cell [1]. Following completion of the genomes of several Gram-negative 
prokaryotes, a putative lipoprotein, VacJ, has been discovered in the raw 
sequence open reading frames [2-4]. Biochemical analysis of the Shigella 
flexneri VacJ protein revealed it to be essential for virulence, promoting 
spread of bacterial cells through the intercellular space of tissues [5]. 

Upon expression in the facultative intracellular microbe, host cells form 
membranous protrusions containing the pathogen, allowing it to move to the 
cytoplasm of the next target cell [5]. As homologues of this lipoprotein 
have largely been found in obligate or facultative intracellular microbial 
genomes, it appears to be specific for that particular lifestyle [5].

The database of bacterial liproteins, DOLOP, cites VacJ as an "interesting 
factor": www.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/genomes/dolop [6]. 

VACJLIPOPROT is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
bacterial VacJ outer membrane lipoproteins. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment. Three iterations 
on SPTR40_20f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 20 sequences was identified. 
