INVEPROTEIN
Secretion of virulence factors in Gram-negative bacteria involves 
transportation of the protein across two membranes to reach the cell 
exterior [1]. There have been four secretion systems described in 
animal enteropathogens such as Salmonella and Yersinia, with further 
sequence similarities in plant pathogens like Ralstonia and Erwinia [1]. 

The type III secretion system is of great interest, as it is used to 
transport virulence factors from the pathogen directly into the host cell 
[2] and is only triggered when the bacterium comes into close contact with
the host. The protein subunits of the system are very similar to those of 
bacterial flagellar biosynthesis [3]. However, while the latter forms a
ring structure to allow secretion of flagellin and is an integral part of
the flagellum itself [3], type III subunits in the outer membrane
translocate secreted proteins through a channel-like structure.

The Salmonella/Shigella invasion protein E gene (InvE) is one such type
III secretion protein subunit, and is localised to the outer membrane of 
the bacterial cell. It is located immediately upstream of the InvA gene on 
the SPI I pathogenicity island, and is involved in the surface presentation 
of antigens to the host cell [4].

INVEPROTEIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Salmonella/Shigella invasion protein InvE. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length (~450 amino acids).
Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 18 sequences was identified.
