ADSPHPHTASE
Dual Specificity Phosphatases (DUSPs) are members of the superfamily of 
Protein Tyrosine Phosphatases (PTPs). They remove the phosphate group from
both phospho-tyrosine and phospho-serine/threonine residues. Many of these
proteins have been related to the MAP kinase signalling pathway and hence they
are also termed MAP kinase phosphatases (MKPs). A group of DUSPs share a high
degree of similarity with the MKP subgroup, but lack the N-terminal regulatory
domain, which provides the substrate specificity towards the MAP kinases.
These proteins form a heterogeneous group and have in common the presence of
a single catalytic PTP domain. They are small-sized and have been named Low
Molecular Weight-DUSPs (LMW-DUSPs) or Atypical-DUSPs. VHR was the first
characterised member of this subfamily; its crystal structure is known [1,2].

The functions of many of the members of this group remain unknown, although 
some have been related to regulation of MAP kinase pathways [3-5]. VHR has
also been related to the control of cell-senescence [6]. On the basis of
sequence similarity, this family can be subdivided into two groups, for 
convenience termed A and B. 

ADSPHPHTASE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
atypical dual specificity phosphatase family. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 16 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment, avoiding the catalytic
PTP domain, which is conserved in the PTP superfamily. Four iterations on
SPTR49_32f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 47 sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also
found, representing orthologous DUSPs from different organisms.
