PNCREATITSAP
Pancreatitis-associated protein (PAP) is a lectin-related secretory protein
present in small amounts in normal pancreas and overexpressed during the 
acute phase of the pancreatitis [1,2]. Conversely, PAP is constitutively
expressed in the intestinal tract, but not in other tissues [2]. PAP mRNA
could not be evidenced in liver, stomach, salivary glands, brain, kidney or 
testis [2]. Its pattern of expression during severe pancreatic aggression
suggests that it might be a stress protein involved in the control of 
bacterial proliferation [3].

The deduced amino acid sequence of PAP shows marked similarity to the
carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of animal lectins [3]. Animal lectins
display a wide variety of architectures, and are classified according to the
CRD, of which there are two principal types: S-type and C-type. C-type
lectins require Ca2+ for their activity. The CRD consists of 110-130
residues, which include four perfectly conserved cysteines that are involved
in the formation of two disulphide bridges. 

PNCREATITSAP is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
pancreatitis-associated protein and related proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1
encodes two cysteine residues involved in the first disulphide bridge; motif
2 includes the first cysteine of the second disulphide bridge; motifs 5 and
6 each include a cysteine involved in the third disulphide bridge, motif 6
also including the cysteine partner of the second disuphide bridge. Two
iterations on SPTR39_14f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 15 sequences was identified.
