TREACLE
Treacher Collins Syndrome (TCS) is an autosomal dominant disorder of
craniofacial development, the features of which include conductive hearing 
loss and cleft palate [1,2]; it is the most common of the human mandibulo-
facial dysostosis disorders [1]. The TCS locus has been mapped to human 
chromosome 5q31.3-32 and the mutated gene identified (TCOF1) [2]. To date,
35 mutations have been reported in TCOF1, all but one of which result in the 
introduction of a premature-termination codon into the predicted protein,
Treacle. The observed mutational spectrum supports the hypothesis that TCS
results from haploinsufficiency [2]. 

Treacle is a low complexity protein of 1,411 amino acids whose predicted
protein structure contains a set of highly polar repeated motifs [1]. These 
motifs are common to nucleolar trafficking proteins in other species and
are predicted to be phosphorylated by casein kinase [1]. In concert with 
this obseration, the full-length TCOF1 protein sequence also contains
putative nuclear and nucleolar localisation signals [1]. Throughout the open
reading frame are found mutations in TCS families and several polymorphisms
[1]. It has thus been suggested that TCS results from defects in a nucleolar
trafficking protein that is critically required during human craniofacial
development [1]. 

TREACLE is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Treacher Collins syndrome protein Treacle. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the internal repeat region. Two iterations on 
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 3 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also found,
NP14_RAT, a rat 140kDa nucleolar phosphoprotein that fails to make a 
significant match with motif 3.

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 6 sequences.
