FRACTALKINE
Chemokines are proteins that have important physiological and patho-
physiological roles in a wide range of acute and chronic inflammatory
processes [1]. Their sequences are similar and are characterised by a
4-cysteine motif: the family can be divided according to whether the first 2
Cys residues are adjacent (the C-C family), or separated by an intervening
residue (the C-x-C family). 

Two additional chemokine families have also been identified, each containing
only one member. C chemokines have only one of the first two Cys residues,
while C-x3-C chemokines contain both cysteines, separated by three
intervening residues [2]. The only C-x3-C chemokine identified to date is
fractalkine, a transmembrane (TM) molecule containing a chemokine domain on
an extended mucin-like stalk [2]. The membrane-bound form of fractalkine can
be induced on endothelial cells in response to inflammation, and promotes
adhesion of monocytes and T lymphocytes. The chemokine can also be released
in a soluble form, which causes chemotaxis of monocytes and T cells [2].

FRACTALKINE is an 11-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
fractalkine/neurotactin precursors. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
sections spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
areas that best characterise the fractalkine precursors - motifs 1-4 span
the N-terminal chemokine domain; motif 5 is located in the central portion
of the mucin stalk; motifs 6-8 span the C-terminal portion of the mucin
stalk; motifs 9 and 10 span the TM domain, leading into the cytoplasmic
domain; and motif 11 resides in the cytoplasmic domain. A single iteration
on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set.
