NACAEXCHNGR
Na+/Ca2+ exchange proteins are involved in maintaining Ca2+ homeostasis in
a wide variety of cell types. They are found in both the plasma membrane
and intracellular organellar membranes, where they exchange Na+ for Ca2+ in
an electrogenic manner. When located in the plasma membrane, they generally
utilise the transmembrane (TM) Na+ concentration gradient in order to
extrude Ca2+ from cells. Three mammalian isoforms have been cloned to date
(NCX1-3), which consist of 920-970 amino acid residues that are predicted
to possess 11 or 12 TM domains. Interestingly, they possess a short motif 
(~30 residues) that is similar to the Na+/K+-ATPase, although its function
is unknown [1-3].

NCX1 has been found to be predominantly expressed in the heart, where it
plays an important role in excitation-contraction coupling, but it is also
abundant in a variety of other tissues [1]. NCX2 and NCX3 transcripts have
been detected in the brain and skeletal muscle [2,3]. Homologous Na+/Ca2+
exchange proteins have also been found in C.elegans, D.melanogaster and
squid.

NACAEXCHNGR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
Na+/Ca2+ exchangers. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from the C-terminal hydrophobic
region of the alignment - motif 1 encodes most of the seventh putative
TM domain; motif 2 spans the end of the seventh TM domain, through the 
start of the eighth TM domain; motif 3 lies within the eighth putative TM
region; and motif 4 encodes ~half the extracellular loop between TM domains
8 and 9. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 19 sequences was identified.
