ABCEFAMILY
The ABCE family of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters solely comprises
the ABCE1 gene product, a 68kDa polypeptide found in insect cells and multi-
cellular eukaryotes, but not in yeast [1-3]. Originally described by Bisbal 
et al. [1], ABCE1 contains 2 nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) typical of 
the ABC transporter protein superfamily; however, it lacks transmembrane 
domains required for membrane transport functions [1,2].

ABCE1 is an endoribonuclease inhibitor that interacts directly with RNase L
to prevent it from binding 2-5A (5'-phosphorylated 2',5'-linked oligo-
adenylates) [1]. RNase L plays a major role in the anti-viral and anti-
proliferative activities of interferons, and its inhibition by ABCE1
occurs in a concentration-dependent manner [1,4].

Recently, ABCE1 has been shown to be essential for the assembly of immature
HIV-1 capsids in insect cells and higher eukaryotic cell types [3]. ABCE1 
expression is induced during HIV type I infection, and is understood to
bind HIV-1 Gag (p55) polypeptides following their translation, and to
promote their assembly into immature HIV-1 capsids [1,3,5].

ABCEFAMILY is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the E
subfamily of ABC transporters. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 10 sequences: all motifs were drawn from the first third of the
alignment, focusing on those regions that distinguish ABCE1 polypeptides
from other members of the ABC transporter superfamily - motif 1 resides in
the putative metal-binding domain; motif 2 lies in the 4Fe-4S iron-sulphur-
binding domain; motif 3 lies between the 4Fe-4S domain and the NBD; motif 4
lies in the ATP-binding region of the NBD; and motifs 5 and 6 reside in the
C-terminal NBD. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 25 sequences was 
identified. A single partial match was also found, a hypothetical protein 
that may be a truncated ABCE1.
