FLGPRINGFLGI
The flgH, flgI and fliF genes of Salmonella typhimurium encode the major 
proteins for the L, P and M rings of the flagellar basal body [1]. In fact,
the basal body consists of four rings (L,P,S and M) surrounding the
flagellar rod, which is believed to transmit motor rotation to the filament 
[2]. The M ring is integral to the inner membrane of the cell, and may be
connected to the rod via the S (supramembrane) ring, which lies just distal
to it. The L and P rings reside in the outer membrane and periplasmic space,
respectively.

The sequences of the FlgH, FlgI and FliF gene products have been determined
[1]. FlgH and FlgI, which are exported across the cell membrane to their 
destinations in the outer membrane and periplasmic space, have typical N-
terminal cleaved signal-peptide sequences [1,3]. FlgH is predicted to have
an extensive beta-sheet structure, in keeping with other outer membrane 
proteins, and FlgI is thought to have even more beta-structure content [1].
Several aspects of the DNA sequence of these genes and their surrounds
suggest complex regulation of the flagellar gene system. 

FLGPRINGFLGI is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
flagellar P-ring proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the N-terminal two-thirds of the alignment. Three iterations on 
OWL30.2 were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 9 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 10 sequences, and 4
partial matches.
