DESMOCOLLIN
Cadherins, first discovered in mouse teratocarcinoma cells [1], are 
structurally and functionally similar molecules [2] that take part in 
selective calcium-dependent adhesion interactions between cell surfaces
[3]. There are a number of different isoforms distributed in a tissue-
specific manner in a wide variety of organisms. Cells containing different 
cadherins tend to segregate in vitro, while those that contain the same 
cadherins tend to preferentially aggregate together. This observation is 
linked to the finding that cadherin expression causes morphological changes
involving the positional segregation of cells into layers, suggesting they 
may play an important role in the sorting of different cell types during 
morphogenesis, histogenesis and regeneration. They may also be involved in 
the regulation of tight and gap junctions, and in the control of 
intercellular spacing.

Structurally, cadherins comprise a number of domains: these include a
signal sequence; a propeptide of ~130 residues; an extracellular domain of
~600 residues; a single transmembrane (TM) domain; and a well-conserved
C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of ~150 residues. The extracellular domain 
can be subdivided into 5 parts, 4 of which are repeats of ~110 residues, 
and the fifth contains 4 conserved cysteines. The calcium-binding region
of cadherins is thought to be located in the extracellular domain.

Desmosomes are localised junctions that hold cells tightly together, common 
in tissues subject to mechanical strain (e.g., epithelia). Desmosomal 
cadherins are TM protein components of desmosomes (for review, see [4-6]),
whose extracellular cadherin repeats are responsible for adhesion and whose
intracellular regions interact with intermediate filaments via desmosomal
plaque proteins plakoglobin, plakobilin and desmoplakin [7]. They are 
believed to play a wider role in regulation of epithelial differentiation
[5]. Two sub-families of desmosomal cadherin have been identified,
desmocollin (DSC) and desmoglein (DSG). 

For each subfamily, three subtypes have been identified, expressed in a
cell-type and differentiation-specific manner [7]. Studies in normally      
desmosome-free cells have shown that expression of at least one DSC and     
one DSG in combination with plakoglobin is required to promote adhesion [8].
Little is known about functional differences between the DSG or DSC sub-    
families. In sequence, however, the DSG differs from DSC in having a longer
cytoplasmic region containing DSG repeats. 

Desmocollins have been implicated in autoimmune blistering skin lesion      
diseases. DSC1 has been shown to be a target antigen in IgA pemphigus
(IgA dermatosis) [9,10]. 

DESMOCOLLIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
desmocollins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 8
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
full alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise
desmocollins but distinguish them from other desmosomal cadherins - motif 1
lies in the fourth cadherin repeat in the N-terminal extracellular domain;
motif 2 lies in the 5th cadherin repeat; and motifs 3-4 lie in the 
C-terminal intracellular domain. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 11 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was also found, DSG2_HUMAN, a closely
related desmoglein that matched motifs 1 and 2.
