SPO11HOMOLOG
Spo11 is a meiosis-specific protein in yeast that covalently binds to DNA
double-strand breaks (DSBs) during the early stages of meiosis [1]. These
DSBs initiate homologous recombination, which is required for chromosomal 
segregation and generation of genetic diversity during meiosis [1]. Mouse
and human homologues of Spo11 have been cloned and characterised [1]. The 
proteins are 82% identical and share ~25% identity with other family 
members. Mouse Spo11 has been localised to chromosome 2H4, and human SPO11
to chromosome 20q13.2-q13.3, a region amplified in some breast and ovarian 
tumours [1]. 

Similarity between SPO11 and archaebacterial TOP6A proteins points to 
evolutionary specialisation of a DNA-cleavage function for meiotic
recombination [2]. Note that the yeast SPO11 protein shares far less 
similarity to other SPO11 proteins than the human and mouse homologues do
to each other.

SPO11HOMOLOG is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
SPO11-like proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment 
of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved regions spanning
the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise the
SPO11 proteins but distinguish them from the closely related TOP6A topo-
isomerases. Two iterations on SPTR39_15f were required to reach convergence,
at which point a true set comprising 7 sequences was identified. Several
partial matches were also found, each of which match 2 motifs: Q9LZ03 is a
meiosis specific-like protein from Arabidopsis thaliana; Q9P4D2 is SPO11
from Coprinus cinereus; and RE12_SCHPO is meiotic recombination protein
REC12 from Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
