PYRUVTKNASE
Pyruvate kinase (EC 2.7.1.40) (PK) catalyses the final step in glycolysis
[1], the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate to pyruvate with concomitant
phosphorylation of ADP to ATP: 

	    ADP + phosphoenolpyruvate = ATP + pyruvate

The enzyme, which is found in all living organisms, requires both magnesium
and potassium ions for its activity [2]. In vertebrates, there are four
tissue-specific isozymes: L (liver), R (red cells), M1 (muscle, heart and 
brain), and M2 (early foetal tissue). In Escherichia coli, there are two 
isozymes: PK-I and PK-II. All isozymes appear to be tetramers of identical
subunits of ~500 residues.

The structure of cat muscle pyruvate kinase has been determined [2]. The 
protein comprises three domains each belonging to the alpha-beta class; one
of these adopts a 3-layer(aba) sandwich architecture; the other two form
beta-barrels.

PYRUVTKNASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
pyruvate kinase family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 31 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 spans strands 3 and
4; motif 2 includes strand 12 and the N-terminal end of helix 7; motif 3
spans strand 13, helices 8 and 9, and strand 14, and includes the region
encoded by PROSITE pattern PYRUVATE_KINASE (PS00110), which contains a 
lysine thought to be the acid/base catalyst responsible for the inter-
conversion of pyruvate and enolpyruvate, and a glutamate implicated in
magnesium binding; motif 4 spans helix 10 and most of helix 11; motif 5 
encompasses strand 15, helix 12 and the N-terminal residue of helix 13;
motif 6 includes helix 13 and strand 16; and motif 7 spans helix 14 and
and most of helix 15. Two iterations on OWL31.1 were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 78 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which are
fragments.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 65 sequences.
