WNT14PROTEIN
Wnt proteins constitute a large family of secreted molecules that are
involved in intercellular signalling during development. The name derives
from the first 2 members of the family to be discovered: int-1 (mouse) and
wingless (Drosophila) [1]. It is now recognised that Wnt signalling controls
many cell fate decisions in a variety of different organisms, including
mammals [2]. Wnt signalling has been implicated in tumorigenesis, early
mesodermal patterning of the embryo, morphogenesis of the brain and kidney,
regulation of mammary gland proliferation, and Alzheimer's disease [3,4].

Wnt-mediated signalling is believed to proceed initially through binding to
cell surface receptors of the frizzled family; the signal is subsequently
transduced through several cytoplasmic components to B-catenin, which enters
the nucleus and activates the transcription of several genes important in
development [5]. More recently, however, several non-canonical Wnt
signalling pathways have been elucidated that act independently of
B-catenin [6]. Members of the Wnt gene family are defined by their sequence
similarity to mouse Wnt-1 and Wingless in Drosophila. They encode proteins
of ~350-400 residues in length, with orthologues identified in several,
mostly vertebrate, species. Very little is known about the structure of 
Wnts as they are notoriously insoluble; in terms of primary structure, the
family is characterised by a signal sequence and an almost invariant pattern
of 23-24 conserved cysteines [1]. Fifteen major Wnt gene families have been 
identified in vertebrates, with multiple subtypes within some classes.

Human Wnt-14 maps to chromosome 1 and originates, together with Wnt-15, from
an ancestral branch of the Wnt gene family, which includes the Wnt-9
sequences found in jawless and cartilaginous fishes [7]. Wnt-14 mRNA is 
preferentially expressed in various types of human cancer, e.g. gastric and 
pancreatic cancer [8].

WNT14PROTEIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
Wnt-14 proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 2 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise Wnt-14 
proteins but distinguish them from other Wnt subtypes - motifs 1-3 reside in 
short regions between conserved cysteines; and motif 4 includes conserved 
Cys15. Two iterations on SPTR40_22f were required to reach convergence, at 
which point a true set comprising 3 sequences was identified.
