NTKRECEPTOR2
Neurotrophins are a family of secreted proteins that regulate development, 
maintenance and function of vertebrate nervous systems. They act via two 
different classes of receptor: p75NTR (a member of the TNF receptor 
superfamily), and neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptors (NTRKs) - also 
known as tropomyosin-related kinases (Trks) [1]. 

NTRKs are multi-domain, transmembrane proteins - in addition to their
cytoplasmic kinase domains, members of the family possess a number of
extracellular leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and Ig-like C2-type regions. Ligand
binding induces them to dimerise, resulting in activation of their
cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domains. The activated receptors couple to a
variety of intracellular signalling cascades, including the Ras,
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3 kinase), mitogen-activated protein (MAP)
kinase, and phospholipase C (PLC)-gamma pathways [2].

NTRK2 (also termed TrkB) is a high-affinity receptor for brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin (NT-4). It is broadly expressed
in the nervous system, and is also found in some non-neural tissues [3]. 
The receptor is involved in synaptogenesis and neuronal development [4]. It
plays a crucial role in learning and memory [5].

NTKRECEPTOR2 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor type 2. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning the N-terminal extracellular domain, focusing on
those sections that characterise NTRK2 but distinguish it from other members
of the NTRK family - motif 1 lies in the signal sequence, and motifs 3 and 4
each encompass short beta strands. Two iterations on SPTR55_38f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 10 
sequences was identified. A single partial match was also found,
Q95K65_MACFA, a translated macaque cDNA that fails to match motifs 3 and 4.
