LENSMEMPROT
The epithelial membrane proteins (EMP-1, -2 and -3), peripheral myelin 
protein 22 (PMP22), and lens fibre membrane intrinsic protein (LMIP)
comprise a protein family on the basis of sequence and structural 
similarities [1]. Each family member is a small hydrophobic membrane
glycoprotein, ~160-170 amino acids in length, and shares a common predicted
transmembrane (TM) topology of 4 TM domains, with intracellular N- and 
C-termini [2]. 

LMIP, previously termed MP17, MP18, MP19 and MP20, is expressed at extremely
high levels in the mammalian eye lens, where it is localised to the thicker
(16-17nm) cell membrane junctions [3]. Although its function has not been 
elucidated, it has been shown to co-localise with connexin-46, suggesting 
that it may be involved in the organisation of junctional plaques [4]. A
role for LMIP in signal transduction has also been proposed, as it is
phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent kinase and binds calmodulin [5].

LENSMEMPROT is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for lens
fibre membrane intrinsic protein (LMIP). The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
TM and loop regions, focusing on those sections that characterise lens 
fibre membrane protein LIMP but distinguish it from other family members -
motifs 1 and 2 reside within the first extracellular loop; motif 3 lies in
the intracellular loop; motif 4 resides in TM domain 3; and motif 5 lies 
in the second extracellular loop. A single iteration on SPTR39_14f was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified 
beyond the starting set. 
