GDNFRALPHA1
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its related factors
neurturin (NTN), artemin (ART) and persephin (PSP), are members of the GDNF
family of neurotrophic factors. They form a sub-group in the transforming 
growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily. These factors are involved in
the promotion of neurone survival, exerting their effects through specific 
receptors.

The GDNF family receptors (GFRs) are glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-linked,
cell surface receptors [1]. Four receptor subtypes, termed GFRalpha-1 to 4,
are currently recognised. Homologues for the GFRalpha-1 receptor subtype 
have been cloned from mammalian and avian tissue. The receptor is activated
by GDNF [2], although there is evidence it can also bind neurturin, the 
principal ligand for GFRalpha-2 [3].

Activation of GFRalpha-1 triggers its interaction with the membrane-bound 
receptor kinase Ret. This induces Ret homo-dimerisation, triggering a 
cascade of intracellular signalling events such as the activation of the 
Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphpinositol-3-kinase 
(PI3K), Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and phospholipase C gamma (PLC gamma)
dependent pathways [1].

GDNFRALPHA1 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
receptor GFRalpha-1. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that
characterise GFRalpha-1 but distinguish it from other GFR isoforms - motifs
1 and 2 reside within the first globular cysteine-rich domain; and motif 3
lies towards the GPI-anchor part of the protein. A single iteration on
SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set.
