GLUCAGONR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The secretin-like GPCRs include secretin [2], calcitonin [3], parathyroid
hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptides [4] and vasoactive intestinal
peptide [5], all of which activate adenylyl cyclase and the phosphatidyl-
inositol-calcium pathway. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 domains, in a
manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to inter-
act with G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been
proposed to account for this, there is no significant sequence similarity
between these families: the secretin-like receptors thus bear their own
unique '7TM' signature.

The glucagon receptor (GR) plays a central role in regulating the level of
blood glucose by controlling the rate of hepatic glucose production and 
insulin secretion [6]. GR is expressed predominantly in liver, kidney, 
adrenal, lung and stomach, with lower levels of expression detected in
brown and white adipose tissue, cerebellum, duodenum and heart [6]. Their
role in the control of blood glucose concentrations makes glucagon and GR
especially important to studies of diabetes, in which the loss of control
over blood glucose concentrations clinically defines the disease [7]. GR is
similar to the secretin-like receptor superfamily. It can transduce signals
leading to the accumulation of two different second messengers - i.e., both
cAMP and calcium [7]. 

GLUCAGONR is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
glucagon receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment 
of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that 
characterise the glucagon receptors but distinguish them from the rest
of the glucagon receptor family - motifs 1-5 span the N-terminal extra-
cellular domain; motif 6 lies in the first extracellular loop; motif 7 lies
in the second cytoplasmic loop; and motifs 8-10 reside at the cytoplasmic
C-terminus. A single iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach 
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
