NCAMFAMILY
Neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) are cell surface glycoproteins that
share structural motifs related to immunoglobulin (Ig) and fibronectin type
III (FNIII) domains. Expressed in neurons, glial cells and skeletal muscle,
NCAM binds both homophilically and heterophilically, mediating processes
such as neural cell growth and migration [1-3]. Polysialic acid binds to
N-glycosylation sites in the Ig domains, affecting the binding of NCAM.
Decreasing levels of sialynation on NCAM promotes aggregation [4], and is
thought to be important in regulation of tissue stability [5].

The full length transcript contains (from N-terminus to C-terminus) five Ig
domains, two FNIII domains, a transmemrane (TM) region and a cytosolic
domain. Alternative splicing is known to generate at least four products
with (apparent desialylated) molecular weights of 180, 140, 120 and 105kDa.
The longer TM products are expressed in neurons (180 and 140kDa) and glial
cells (140 kDa), whereas the 120kDa product is GPI-anchored on the surface
of myotubes and the 105kDa product is secreted (for review see [5,6]).
Further splice variation arises from a variable alternatively spliced exon 
(VASE) in the fourth Ig domain and a muscle-specific domain (MSD) between
the two FNIII domains containing an O-glycosylation site [5].

NCAMFAMILY is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
neural cell adhesion molecule family. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the N-terminal Ig-domain-containing region - motif 1 
contains the N-terminal portion of the first Ig domain; motif 2 contains
the N-terminal portion of the second Ig domain; motif 3 includes the
C-terminal portion of the second Ig domain; and motif 4 includes the 
C-terminal portion of the third Ig domain. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 19
sequences was identified.
