GPR162
Computational methods, including percent identity plots, hydropathy profiles
and BLAST, have been used to analyse a gene-rich cluster at human chromosome
12p13 and to compare it with its syntenic region in mouse chromosome 6 [1-3].
Of 6 genes identified, one of these, termed Gene A, revealed 3 splice forms:
form A2 demonstrated a clear 7-transmembrane (TM) hydropathy profile, and
showed very weak similarity to members of the G protein-coupled receptor 
(GPCR) superfamily [3].

GPCRs mediate a wide range of physiological functions, are major drug
targets, and are consequently the subject of considerable research interest.
In 2003, Vassilatis et al. reported that the repertoire of GPCRs for 
endogenous ligands consisted of 367 receptors in humans and 392 in mice,
including 26 from human and 83 from mouse that had not been identified
previously [4]. 

Of these novel receptors, GP162 (also known as GRCA) does show some
similarity to rhodopsin-class GPCRs (most notably to certain tyramine and
serotonin receptors, particularly in the region of TM domain 4), but the
overall degree of similarity is very low, and evidence that it is functional
GPCR has not been gathered experimentally.

GPR162 is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
GP162 7TM protein. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
3 sequences - the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that 
characterise GP162 but distinguish it from closely related GP153 proteins.
A single iteration on SPTR55_38f was required to reach convergence, no
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. A single partial
match was also found, Q3TY71_MOUSE, a murine visual cortex protein that
matches motifs 1-3.
