CCBSBIOGNSIS
Within mitochondria and bacteria, a family of related proteins is involved
in the assembly of periplasmic c-type cytochromes: these include CycK [1],
CcmF [2,3], NrfE [4] and CcbS [5]. These proteins may play a role in 
guidance of apocytochromes and haem groups for their covalent linkage 
by the cytochrome-c-haem lyase. Members of the family are probably integral
membrane proteins, with up to 16 predicted transmembrane (TM) helices.

Analysis of a transcribed region in the mitochondrial genome of Oenothera 
revealed an open reading frame (ORF) that is also conserved in carrot [5]. 
Extensive RNA editing (46 C to U transitions) alters the Oenothera mRNA
sequence, yielding a sequence with high similarity to the homologous gene
product in Marchantia [5]. The deduced polypeptides share significant
similarity with the ccl1-encoded protein involved in cytochrome c biogenesis
in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus [5]. A highly 
conserved domain is also found in plastid ORFs, suggesting that these
bacterial, chloroplast and mitochondrial genes encode polypeptides with
analogous functions in assembly and maturation of cytochromes c [5]. 

CCBSBIOGNSIS is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
plant cytochrome c-type biogenesis proteins. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on
those sections that characterise the plant proteins but distinguish them 
from the rest of the cytochrome c-type biogenesis protein family. Two 
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 4 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were 
also found, both of which are related plant proteins that fail to match the
C-terminal motifs.
