HELNAPAPROT
Helicobacter pylori is a Gram-negative flagellated pathogen that causes   
gastric and peptic ulcers. In its chronic state, it can also contribute to 
gastric cancer development, through elicitation of a huge host inflammatory 
response [1]. It has been suggested that activated leukocytes may be 
responsible for tissue damage, and that phagocytes contribute to 
carcinogenesis. 

One of the bacterium's many virulence factors is neutrophil-activating 
protein A (NAPA), a 15kDa peptide that forms dodecameric complexes upon 
secretion from the pathogen [2]. It belongs to the iron-binding ferritin 
family, and is structurally similar to E.coli DNA-binding Dps protein [3]. 
The complex is able to bind up to 500 atoms of iron, but does not have
DNA-binding properties. Each monomer has four alpha-helices arranged as a 
bundle. 

Recent work has demonstrated that NAPA protein, used as an oral vaccine, 
confers protection on mice against H.pylori infection [4]. It has also shown
the amino acid sequence to be similar to other bacteroferritin/DNA-binding 
proteins, such as B.subtilis MRGA, TYF1 antigen from Treponema spp., and 
hypothetical iron binding proteins from Rickettsia and Streptomyces [4].

HELNAPAPROT is an 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
the Helicobacter pylori neutrophil-activating protein A family. The
fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 sequences: the
motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full alignment length 
(~180 amino acids) - motif 1 overlaps the N-terminus of helix 2, and motif
2 the C-terminus; while motif 3 spans the N-terminus of helix 4. Two 
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 16 sequences was identified. A single partial match
was also found, a NAPA protein from Borrelia burgdorferi that fails to
make a significant match with motif 2.
