OTXHOMEOBOX
Otx proteins constitute a class of vertebrate homeodomain-containing
transcription factors that have been shown to be essential for anterior
head formation, including brain morphogenesis. They are orthologous to the
product of the Drosophila head gap gene, orthodenticle (Otd), and appear to
play similar roles in both, since the developmental abnormalities caused by
disruption of these transcription factors in one, can be recovered by
substitution of the factor(s) from the other. Such studies have provided
strong evidence that there exists a conserved genetic programme for insect
and mammalian brain development, which presumably arose in a more primitive
common ancestor [1,2].

Two vertebrate orthodenticle-related transcription factors have been
indentified, Otx1 and Otx2, which have sizes of 355 and 289 residues
respectively. They contain a bicoid-like homeodomain, which features a
conserved lysine residue at position 9 of the DNA recognition helix, which
is thought to confer high-affinity binding to TAATCC/T elements on DNA [3].
Otd-like transcription factors have also been found in zebrafish and 
certain lamprey species.

OTXHOMEOBOX is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for Otx
transcription factors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 enocodes the first
10 residues of the N-terminus (prior to the homeobox DNA-binding domain);
and motifs 2-4 encode short stretches (7-9 residues) of the C-terminal half
of the sequence alignment. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 10 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was also found, Q9YHDO, a sea lamprey 
Otx protein that matches motifs 1 and 4.
