VDCCGAMMA8
Voltage-dependent calcium channels are a diverse family of proteins that 
encompass a variety of biological functions, including presynaptic
neurotransmitter release and protein signalling within the cell [1,2]. The
high voltage-activated (L-, N-, P-, Q- and R-type) channels comprise the 
alpha-1 subunit, which creates the pore for the import of extracellular 
calcium ions [2]. The activity of this pore is modulated by 4 tightly-
coupled subunits: an intracellular beta subunit; a transmembrane (TM) gamma 
subunit; and a disulphide-linked complex of alpha-2 and delta subunits, 
which are proteolytically cleaved from the same gene product [3,4].

The voltage-dependent calcium channel gamma (VDCCG) subunit family consists 
of at least 8 members, which share a number of common structural features 
[5]. Each member is predicted to possess 4 TM domains, with intracellular
N- and C-termini. The first extracellular loop contains a highly conserved
N-glycosylation site and a pair of conserved cysteine residues. The 
C-terminal 7 residues of VDCCG-2, -3, -4 and -8 are also conserved and 
contain a consensus site for phosphorylation by cAMP and cGMP-dependent
protein kinases, and a target site for binding by PDZ domain proteins [5].

The VDCCG-8 subunit was identified by high throughput genomic sequence 
database searching, pursuing sequences similar to VDCCG-1 to -5 [5].
Mouse and rat isoforms have been cloned. VDCCG-8 mRNA is expressed in the 
brain and testis [6].

VDCCGAMMA8 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
voltage-dependent calcium channel gamma-8 subunit proteins. The fingerprint
was derived from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions in the N-terminal and extracellular loop regions, 
focusing on those sections that characterise the VDCCG-8 subunits but 
distinguish  them from other family members - motif 1 lies in the cyto-
plasmic N-terminal region; motif 2 resides in the first extracellular
loop; and motif 3 lies in the second extracellular loop. A single iteration
on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set.
