AMPHIPHYSIN
Amphiphysins are proteins that are thought to be involved in clathrin-
mediated endocytosis, actin function, and signalling pathways. They are
highly concentrated in nerve terminals, where they may act as linkers
between the clathrin coat and dynamin in the endocytosis of synaptic
vesicles. Such recycling of synaptic vesicles is necessary for
neurotransmission to continue, following neurotransmitter release.
Amphiphysin family members share a similar three-domain organisation: the
N-terminal domain contains six heptad repeats, which are predicted to form
a coiled-coiled structure, thought to be involved in the dimerisation of
amphiphysin molecules; the central region binds the heavy chain of clathrin
and the clathrin adaptor protein AP-2, through distinct sites; and the
C-terminal domain contains a Src-homology-3 (SH3) domain that binds the 
GTPase dynamin and the inositol-5'-phosphatase synaptojanin-1. The 
interactions mediated by both the central and C-terminal domains are
believed to be modulated by proten phosphorylation [1,2].

AMPHIPHYSIN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
amphiphysin family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 13 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length - motifs 1-4 lie near the N-terminus
before the putative coiled-coil domain; motifs 5-7 encode portions of the
coiled-coil domain; motif 8 lies just prior to the C-terminal SH3 domain;
and motif 9 encodes ~1/5 of the SH3 domain. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 21
sequences was identified. A single partial match was also found, Q21004,
a sequence arising from the C.elegans Genome Project - this shows strong
similarity to motifs 1, 3 and 5, and appears to possess a C-terminal SH3 
domain, suggesting it may be a distant amphiphysin homologue.
