FMDVP1COAT
The complete nucleotide sequence of cDNA coding for the structural capsid 
polypeptides of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) has been determined [1].
The FMDV capsid is composed of 60 icosahedral units, each of which comprises
one copy each of proteins VP1, VP2, VP3 and VP4 [1]. Specific enzymatic 
cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins. The VP1 coat protein contains the
main antigenic determinants of the virion, and hence changes in its sequence
must be responsible for the high antigenic variability of the virus.

The structure of FMDV has been determined to 2.9A resolution by means of 
X-ray diffraction [2]. The virus shares similarities with other picorna-
viruses, but also reveals unique features. The canyon found in other 
picornaviruses is absent, which has important implications for cell 
attachment [2]. The most immunogenic portion of the capsid, which acts 
as a potent peptide vaccine, forms a disordered protrusion on the virus
surface [2]. 

FMDVP1COAT is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
FMDV VP1 coat protein. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the 
full length of the VP1 coat protein. Two iterations on SPTR39_15f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 14 
sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found: Q00280 is a
foot-and-mouth disease virus C VP1 coat protein that fails to make 
significant matches with the first two motifs; and Q9Q2N9 is a polyprotein
from foot-and-mouth disease SAT 2 that matches motifs 1, 5 and 8.
