SYNAPSIN
The synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that coat
synaptic vesicles and are involved in the binding between these vesicles
and the cytoskeleton (including actin filaments). The family comprises 5
homologous proteins Ia, Ib, IIa, IIb and III. Synapsins I, II, and III are
encoded by 3 different genes. The a and b isoforms of synapsin I and II are
splice variants of the primary transcripts [1].

Synapsin I is mainly associated with regulation of neurotransmitter release
from presynaptic neuron terminals [2]. Synapsin II, as well as being
involved in neurotransmitter release, has a role in the synaptogenesis and
synaptic plasticity responsible for long term potentiation [3]. Recent 
studies implicate synapsin III with a developmental role in neurite 
elongation and synapse formation that is distinct from the functions of
synapsins I and II [4].

Structurally, synapsins are multidomain proteins, of which 3 domains are
common to all the mammalian forms. The N-terminal 'A' domain is ~30 residues
long and contains a serine residue that serves as an acceptor site for 
protein kinase-mediated phosphorylation. This is followed by the 'B' linker
domain, which is ~80 residues long and is relatively poorly conserved.
Domain 'C' is the longest, spanning approximately 300 residues. This domain
is highly conserved across all the synapsins (including those from
Drosophila) and is possessed by all splice variants. The remaining six
domains, D-I, are not shared by all the synapsins and differ both between
the primary transcripts and the splice variants.

SYNAPSIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
synapsins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 7 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the 'C'
domain, towards the central portion of the alignment. Two iterations on
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 10 sequences was identified.
