NEUROTROPHN4
During the development of the vertebrate nervous system, many neurons
become redundant (because they have died, failed to connect to target
cells, etc.) and are eliminated. At the same time, developing neurons send
out axon outgrowths that contact their target cells [1]. Such cells control
their degree of innervation (the number of axon connections) by the
secretion of various specific neurotrophic factors that are essential for
neuron survival. One of these is nerve growth factor (NGF), which is
involved in the survival of some classes of embryonic neuron (e.g., peri-
pheral sympathetic neurons) [1]. NGF is mostly found outside the central
nervous system (CNS), but slight traces have been detected in adult CNS
tissues, although a physiological role for this is unknown [1]; it has also
been found in several snake venoms [2,3]. Proteins similar to NGF include
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophins 3 to 7, all of
which demonstrate neuron survival and outgrowth activities.

Neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) exerts its effects by binding to neurotrophic 
tyrosine kinase receptor type 2 (NTRK2; also called TrkB). NT-4 has been 
shown to play a crucial role in the development of long-term memory [4]. It
has also been implicated in the regulation of appetite and in body weight
control [5].

NEUROTROPHN4 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
neurotrophin-4. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
virtually the full alignment length, motif 1 lying in the propeptide, and
motifs 2 and 3 respectively encompassing short beta strands towards the N-
and C-termini of the neurotrophin-4 polypeptide chain. A single iteration
on SPTR55_38f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set.
