LYMPHSPCIFIC
Human and mouse LSP1 proteins consist of two domains: an N-terminal acidic 
domain and a C-terminal basic domain [1,2]. The C-terminal domains are 
highly conserved and include several putative Ser/Thr phosphorylation sites
[1]. Immunoprecipitation of LSP1 from 32P-orthophosphate-loaded cells 
indicates that LSP1 is a phosphoprotein [1]. The N-terminal domain of mouse
LSP1 contains two putative Ca2(+)-binding sites, but these are not conserved
in human LSP1; nevertheless, a different Ca2(+)-binding site may exist in 
the human protein, indicating functional rather than strict sequence 
conservation of the two proteins [1,2].

Although the precise function of LSP is unclear, it is an F-actin binding 
protein thought to be involved in transmembrane signal transduction via its 
postulated calcium-binding function [3] (although evidence for the existence
of the calcium-binding sites is weak). The expression pattern of LSP1 is 
highly restricted. Non-lymphoid cell lines or normal mouse tissues such as
brain, lung, liver, skeletal muscle, kidney or testis do not express the 
protein, and it appears that its expression in the hematopoietic system is
restricted to the lymphocyte, macrophage and neutrophil lineages [3]. 

LYMPHSPCIFIC is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
lymphocyte-specific proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the full alignment length. A single iteration on OWL31.1 was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified
beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 4 sequences.
