THROMBOPTN
Megakaryocytes are large cells found in the bone marrow that, upon
maturation, fragment into platelets. The term thrombopoietin (TPO) was
coined in 1958 to describe a possible humoral entity that stimulates
megakaryocyte development into platelets. The discovery of a novel
haemopoietic cytokine receptor encoded by the proto-oncogene c-mpl raised
speculation that this was the receptor for thrombopoietin, and prompted a
search for the endogenous ligand [1]. The ligand was cloned and in vivo-
administration of the recombinant protein to mice produced a 4-fold increase
in circulating platelets. These results suggested that the c-mpl ligand was
in fact thrombopoietin [2].

More recent studies have shown that TPO is expressed in hepatocytes, the
renal proximal tubules, muscle cells and stromal cells in haemopoietic
organs [3]. TPO is a 332-residue protein with a 2-domain structure. The
domain at the N-terminus is 153 amino acids long, shares similarity with
erythropoietin and can itself stimulate megakaryopoiesis in vitro. A four-
alpha-helical structure is predicted, which is typical of many haemopoietic
regulators. The C-terminal domain is 179 amino acids long, is highly 
variable across species and is not required for the binding of c-mpl [4].

THROMBOPTN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
thrombopoietins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the 
N-terminal domain. Two iterations on SPTR39_15f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 5 sequences was identified.
