IL11AFISH
Interleukins (IL) are a group of cytokines that play an important role in
the immune system. They modulate inflammation and immunity by regulating
growth, mobility and differentiation of lymphoid and other cells.

Interleukin-11 (IL-11) is a pleiotropic cytokine that stimulates 
megakaryocytopoiesis, resulting in increased production of platelets, as 
well as activating osteoclasts, inhibiting epithelial cell proliferation 
and apoptosis, and inhibiting macrophage mediator production. These 
functions may be particularly important in mediating the hematopoietic, 
osseous and mucosal protective effects of IL-11 [1]. The cytokine also 
possesses anti-inflammatory activity, and has been proposed as a therapeutic
agent in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as Crohn's 
disease and rheumatoid arthritis [2].

Although IL-11 was initially believed to be restricted to mammals,
subsequent studies demonstrated it to be expressed in fish [3,4]. Two fish
paralogues have now been identified, designated IL-11A and IL-11B [4].

IL-11A is expressed in intestine, gills, spleen, head kidney, brain, skin 
and muscle [3]. However, unlike IL-11B, it is not expressed in peripheral 
blood leukocytes [5]. IL-11A is thought to play a role in host immune 
response to infection [3].

IL11AFISH is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
interleukin-11A. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
N-terminal half of the alignment. A single iteration on SPTR55_38f was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set.
