MTABOTROPC5R
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The metabotropic glutamate receptors are functionally and pharmacologically
distinct from the ionotropic glutamate receptors. They are coupled to G-
proteins and stimulate the inositol phosphate/Ca2+ intracellular signalling 
pathway [2-5]. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain 2 domains:
a large extracellular domain, and a membrane-associated domain that contains
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 regions, in a manner
reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to interact with
G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been proposed to
account for this, there is no significant sequence identity between these
and receptors of the rhodopsin-type family: the metabotropic glutamate
receptors thus bear their own distinctive '7TM' signature. This 7TM
signature is also shared by the calcium-sensing receptors.

At least eight sub-types of metabotropic receptor (MGR1-8) have been 
identified in cloning studies. The sub-types differ in their agonist 
pharmacology and signal transduction pathways [6]. mRNA for MGR5 is 
widespread in the brain, with a unique distribution; it is found in high
levels in the striatum, cerebral cortex, hippocampus and olfactory bulb [6].
MGR5 activates the phosphoinositide pathway, probably via a G protein of
the Gq/G11 class; pertussis toxin partially inhibits the response to MGR1,
but not to MGR5 [6]. 

MTABOTROPC5R is a 12-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 precursor. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise the metabotropic glutamate type 5 receptors but 
distinguish them from the rest of the metabotropic glutamate receptor family
- motifs 1-7 reside in the N-terminal extracellular domain, motif 7 spanning
the N-terminus of putative TM domain 1; motif 8 spans the C-terminus of TM
domain 4; and motifs 9-12 lie in the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. Two
iterations on OWL31.1 were required to reach convergence, at which point a
true set comprising 3 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were
also found, MGR1_HUMAN and MGR1_RAT, both of which are type 1 receptors
that match motifs 10 and 12.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 2 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
