EP450ICYP2J
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1], widely
distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes are involved
in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous compounds [2].
Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multi-component electron transfer
chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems.

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450
superfamily, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [3]. On the basis
of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2 main classes,
the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic 3-component
systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all other known
P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class [4]. E-class P450s may be
further divided into 5 subclasses (groups) according to protein sequence
similarities. The data suggest that divergence of the P450 superfamily 
into B- and E-classes, and further divergence into stable P450 groups 
within the E-class, must be very ancient and had occured before the 
appearance of eukaryotes. 

Due to the rapid increase in numbers of P450s, Nelson introduced the concept
of a higher order classification of P450 families into clans [3] based on
sequence similarity. This is similar to the previous grouping into B- and
E-classes; both classifications are still used. According to Nelson's
system, clan 2 contains the CYP2 plus CYP1, 17, 18, 21 and 71 families, and
corresponds to the E-class group I proteins [5,6]. Members of the first 4
families are of vertebrate origin, while those from CYP71 derive from plants.
CYP1 and CYP2 enzymes mainly metabolise exogenous substrates, whereas CYP17
and CYP21 are involved in metabolism of endogenous physiologically-active
compounds. 

The CYP2 family, comprising 15 subfamilies (A-H, J-N, P and Q), is the most
dominant in clan 2. Six of these subfamilies are non-mammalian: 2H derives
from chicken; 2K, 2M, 2N and 2P are from fish; 2L is from lobster; and 2Q
from Xenopus [5]. Ten CYP2J1 isoforms have been reported, including rabbit
CYP2J1; human CYP2J2; rat 2J3 and 2J4; mouse 2J5, 2J6, 2J7, 2J8 and 2J9; and
rat CYP2J10 [7]. The metabolic activities of CYP2J2, 2J3, 2J4 and 2J5 have
been characterised; all isoforms are active toward arachidonic acid, forming
metabolites believed to be important for cellular functions. In addition,
CYP2J4 is active in the biosynthesis of retinoic acid from retinal.

EP450ICYP2J is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
CYP2J P450 family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the N- 
and C-terminal portions of the alignment, focusing on those sections that
characterise the CYP2J proteins but distinguish them from the rest of the
CYP2 family - using the model of de Groot et al. [8], motif 1 lies in the
N-terminal membrane anchor domain; motif 2 encodes the B helix; motif 3
spans the E1 and F1 helices, and lies at the N-terminus of the haem-binding
domain; and motif 4 spans the C-terminus, including substrate recognition
site (SRS) 6. Two iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 6 sequences was identified.
