IGFBPFAMILY
Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs)-I and -II are small secreted peptides
that stimulate the survival, and promote the proliferation and
differentiation, of many cell types [1]. In biological fluids, these growth
factors are usually bound to IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs), which regulate
their availability and activity by prolonging their half-life and
modulating their receptor interactions.

To date, six IGFBP family members have been identified (termed IGFBP1-6)
[2]. They share a conserved gene (intron-exon) organisation and high IGF-
binding affinity. Structurally, the proteins also share a common domain
architecture, possessing a conserved N-terminal IGFBP domain, a highly
variable mid-section, and a thyroglobulin type-1 (Tg1) domain in their
C-terminal regions.

In addition to their role in the regulation of IGF activity, there is
evidence for the direct association of IGFBPs with a variety of
extracellular and cell surface molecules [3,4], with consequent effects
upon important biological processes. These include modulation of bone cell
proliferation [5], and growth arrest of breast and prostate cancer cells
[3,6].

IGFBPFAMILY is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
insulin-like growth factor-binding protein family. The fingerprint was 
derived from an initial alignment of 18 sequences: the motifs were drawn 
from conserved regions in the N- and C-terminal thirds of the alignment -
motifs 1 and 2 reside within the IGFBP domain, and motifs 3 and 4 lie
within the Tg1 domain. Two iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 81 sequences was 
identified. Eighteen partial matches were also found, including several
Xenopus laevis IGFBPs and a number of translated cDNA sequences.
