TYPE3OMBPROT
Some Gram-negative animal enteropathogens express a specialised secretion 
system to directly "inject" exotoxins into the cytoplasm of host cells. 
Dubbed the type III secretion system, it is of specific interest to 
researchers, as the components of such a system are only expressed in 
pathogenic strains [1]. The system is composed of structural proteins and 
exotoxin effectors; these are often encoded on large virulence plasmids or 
on the bacterial chromosome itself [1]. 

The Shigella flexneri invasion plasmid antigen (ipa) genes are found on such 
a plasmid, and are arranged into an operon. Directly upstream of this operon 
is another cluster of type III genes, termed ipgD, E and F [2]. Deletion 
mutational studies of all three genes showed they were essential for 
virulence in S.flexneri, and that IpgD is secreted by the type III needle 
to the outside of the bacterial cell [2]. Further analysis of the ipg operon
confirmed that the IpgD gene product is chaperoned by the IpgE protein while 
in the bacterial cytoplasm [3]. 

More recently, a large study into the spread of the ipa/mxi/ipg
pathogenicity islands through their relevant plasmid has revealed that 
homologues exist in many different Shigella strains, as well as 
enteroinvasive E.coli and Salmonella spp. [4]. There is evidence that the 
genes were acquired from Shigella through lateral transfer, like most of the
other type III secretion system virulence plasmids [4]. 

TYPE3OMBPROT is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
type III secretion system outer membrane B protein family. The fingerprint
was derived from an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning the N-terminal portion of the alignment. Two
iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 24 sequences was identified.
