AP2TNSCPFCT
Activator protein-2 (AP-2) transcription factors constitute a family of
closely related and evolutionarily conserved proteins that bind to the DNA 
consensus sequence GCCNNNGGC and stimulate target gene transcription [1,2].
Four different isoforms of AP-2 have been identifed in mammals, termed AP-2
alpha, beta, gamma and delta. Each family member shares a common structure, 
possessing a proline/glutamine-rich domain in the N-terminal region, which 
is responsible for transcriptional activation [1], and a helix-span-helix
domain in the C-terminal region, which mediates dimerisation and site-
specific DNA binding [2].

The AP-2 family have been shown to be critical regulators of gene expression
during embryogenesis. They regulate the development of facial prominence and
limb buds, and are essential for cranial closure and development of the lens
[3]; they have also been implicated in tumorigenesis. AP-2 protein 
expression levels have been found to affect cell transformation, tumour 
growth and metastasis, and may predict survival in some types of cancer [4,5].

AP2TNSCPFCT is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
AP-2 transcription factor family. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 12 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions in the C-terminal half of the alignment, focusing on those sections
that characterise the AP-2 family - motifs 1 and 2 lie between the
transcriptional activation domain and the helix-span-helix dimerisation 
domain; and motif 3 lies within the dimerisation domain. Three iterations on
SPTR40_20f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 20 sequences was identified.
