ZETATUBULIN
Microtubules are polymers of tubulin, a dimer of two 55kDa subunits,
designated alpha and beta [1,2]. Within the microtubule lattice, alpha-beta
heterodimers associate in a head-to-tail fashion, giving rise to microtubule 
polarity. Fluorescent labelling studies have suggested that tubulin is
oriented in microtubules with beta-tubulin toward the plus end [3].

For maximal rate and extent of polymerisation into microtubules, tubulin
requires GTP. Two molecules of GTP are bound at different sites, termed N
and E. At the E (Exchangeable) site, GTP is hydrolysed during incorporation
into the microtubule. Close to the E site is an invariant region rich in
glycine residues, which is found in both chains and is thought to control
access of the nucleotide to its binding site [4].

Most species, excepting simple eukaryotes, express a variety of closely-
related alpha- and beta-isotypes. A third family member, gamma-tubulin, has
also been identified in a number of species. Gamma-tubulin is found at
microtubule-organising centres, such as the spindle poles or the centrosome, 
suggesting that it is involved in minus-end nucleation of microtubule
assembly [5]. More recently, zeta-tubulin has been identified in Trypanosoma
brucei and Leishmania major [6], and a partial sequence has also been 
identified in Xenopus laevis [7].

ZETATUBULIN is a 15-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
zeta-tubulins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise the
zeta-tubulins but distinguish them from the rest of the tubulin family.
A single iteration on SPTR39_8-15_10 was required to reach convergence, no
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.

An update on SPTR57.15_40.15f identified a true set of 7 sequences.
