INTRLEUKIN10
Interleukin 10 (IL-10) is a secreted 17-21kDa protein that is non-
glycosylated in humans but exists as a non-covalent homodimer. IL-10 is
secreted by some types of T-lymphocyte, B-lymphocytes and macrophages late
after antigen activation.

Generally, IL-10 inhibits T-cell and natural killer cell synthesis of other
cytokines at the transcriptional level, indirectly, by affecting
macrophages. These cytokines include interferon-gamma, IL-2, IL-3, tumour
necrosis factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor
(GM-CSF). The mechanism of IL-10 induced inhibition appears to involve a
reduction in the abundance of the macrophage surface molecules that directly
stimulate T-cells and natural killer cells [1].

Proteins encoded by viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus and equine herpes
virus show a high degree of sequence identity to IL-10. These proteins are
thought to be involved in evasion of host immune responses. The IL-10 
molecule is a tight dimer of 2 interpenetrating subunits that form a 
V-shaped structure. Each half of the structure consists of 6 alpha-helices
(4 from 1 subunit and 2 from the other). Four of the helices form an 
up-up-down-down bundle, which is observed in all other helical cytokines.
The overall topology resembles interferon-gamma [2].

INTRLEUKIN10 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
interleukin-10. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motif 1 spans alpha-helix 1; motif 2 contains helix 3 and
the preceding loop; motif 3 contains helix 7 and the preceding loop; and
motif 4 spans helix 9 and the N-terminal portion of helix 10. Two iterations
on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 21 sequences was identified.
