NOTCH4
Notch cell surface receptors are large, single-pass type-1 transmembrane
proteins found in a diverse range of metazoan species, from human to
Caenorhabditis species. The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, possesses
only one Notch protein, whereas in C.elegans, two receptors have been found;
by contrast, four Notch paralogues (designated N1-4) have been identified in
mammals, playing both unique and redundant roles.

The hetero-oligomer Notch comprises a large extracellular domain (ECD),
containing 10-36 tandem Epidermal Growth Factor (EFG)-like repeats, which
are involved in ligand interactions; a negative regulatory region,
including three cysteine-rich Lin12-Notch Repeats (LNR); a single trans-
membrane domain (TM); a small intracellular domain (ICD), which includes a
RAM (RBPjk-association module) domain; six ankyrin repeats (ANK), which are
involved in protein-protein interactions; and a PEST domain. Drosophila 
Notch also contains an OPA domain [1]. 	 

Notch signalling is an evolutionarily conserved pathway involved in a wide
variety of developmental processes, including adult homeostasis and stem 
cell maintainance, cell proliferation and apoptosis [2]. Notch is activated
by a range of ligands - the so-called DSL ligands (Delta/Seratte/LAG-2). 
Activation is also mediated by a sequence of proteolytic events: ligand
binding leads to cleavage of Notch by ADAM proteases [3] at site 2 (S2) and
presenilin-1/g-secretase at sites 3 (S3)and 4 (S4) [4].The last cleavage
releases the Notch intracellular part of the protein (NICD) from the
membrane and, upon release, the NICD translocates to the nucleus where it
associates with a CBF1/RBJk/Su(H)/Lag1 (CSL) family of DNA-binding proteins.
The subsequent recruitment of a co-activator mastermind like (MAML1) protein
[5] promotes transcriptional activation of Notch target genes: well 
established Notch targets are the Hes and Hey gene families.  
   
Aberrant Notch function and signalling has been associated with a number of
human disorders, including Allagile syndrome, spondylocostal dysostosis,
aortic valve disease, CADASIL (Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with
Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy), and T-cell Acute Lympho-
blastic Leukemia (T-ALL); it has also been implicated in various human
carcinomas [6,7].

Notch 4 is selectively expressed in vascular endothelium, and regulates
vascular remodelling [8].

NOTCH4 is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for neurogenic
locus Notch protein 4. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment 
of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 lies within an EGF repeat;
motifs 2-5 lie in a conserved section C-terminal to the LNR region;
motif 6 lies N-terminal to the TM domain; and motif 7 resides at the
protein C-terminus. Two iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 11 sequences was
identified. 
