POLYCYSTIN2
Polycystic kidney diseases (PKD) are disorders characterised by large
numbers of cysts distributed throughout grossly-enlarged kidneys. Cyst
development is associated with impairment of kidney function, and ultimately
kidney failure and death [1,2]. Most cases of autosomal dominant PKD result
from mutations in the PKD1 gene that cause premature protein termination. 

A second gene for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease has been
identified by positional cloning [3]. The predicted 968-amino acid sequence 
of the PKD2 gene product (polycystin-2) contains 6 transmembrane domains, 
with intracellular N- and C-termini [3]. Polycystin-2 shares some similarity
with the family of voltage-activated calcium (and sodium) channels, and 
contains a potential calcium-binding domain [3].

Polycystin-2 is strongly expressed in ovary, foetal and adult kidney, 
testis, and small intestine. Polycystin-1 requires the presence of this
protein for stable expression and is believed to interact with it via its
C-terminus. All mutations between exons 1 and 11 result in a truncated 
polycystin-2 that lacks a calcium-binding EF-hand domain and the cytoplasmic
domains required for the interaction of polycystin-2 with polycystin-1 [4].
PKD2, although clinically milder than PKD1, has a deleterious impact on
life expectancy.

POLYCYSTIN2 is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
polycystin-2. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 2
sequences: the motifs were drawn largely from hydrophobic segments spanning
the C-terminal half of the alignment. Two iterations on SPTR39_14f were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 5 
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found: Q9U1S7
and Q9UNJ0 are polycystin-2-like proteins from C.elegans and H.sapiens; and
Q9VK95, Q9W4X5 and Q9VVZ8 are Drosophila proteins that share similarity with
motifs 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8.
