INTRLEUKIN1A
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a cytokine with a wide range of biological and
physiological effects, including fever, prostaglandin synthesis (in e.g.,
fibroblasts, muscle and endothelial cells), T-lymphocyte activation, and 
interleukin-2 production [1]. This family is a member of a superfamily that
also contains the heparin binding growth factors (HBGF), the Kunitz-type 
soybean trypsin inhibitors (STI) and histactophilin. All have very similar
structures, but although the interleukin-1 and HBGF families share some
sequence similarity (about 25%), they show none at all to the STIs.

Over a hundred cytokines have now been identified, including several
putative new members of the IL-1 family [2]. The IL-1 family consists of 2
main classes, designated alpha (IL1A) and beta (IL1B), as well as the more
recently discovered IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL1RA). Sequence similarity 
is high within the IL1A and IL1B subfamilies (about 60-70%) but low between
them (less than 30%). IL1As and IL1Bs are synthesised as larger precursors, 
which are processed to give mature carboxy fragments. IL1B requires this 
cleavage to become biologically active, but IL1A precursor is already 
active. Both IL1A and IL1B bind to the same IL1-specific receptor on the 
target cell, which is then internalised to initiate the relevant effects
(which appear to be similar or identical).

The crystal structures of IL1A and IL1B [3] have been solved, showing them 
to share the same 12-stranded beta-sheet structure as both the heparin
binding growth factors and the Kunitz-type soybean trypsin inhibitors [4].
The beta-sheets are arranged in 3 similar lobes around a central axis, 6
strands forming an anti-parallel beta-barrel. Several regions, especially 
the loop between strands 4 and 5, have been implicated in receptor binding.

INTRLEUKIN1A is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
interleukin-1 alpha precursor. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length - motifs 1-4 reside in the propeptide;
motif 5 encodes the N-terminus of beta-strand 1; motif 6 spans the 
C-terminus of strand 1 and the N-terminus of strand 2; motif 7 includes
strand 4; motif 8 encodes strands 6-8; motif 9 spans alpha-helix 1 and
strands 9 and 10; and motif 10 encompasses strands 11-13. Two iterations on
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 14 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, Q62161, a murine interleukin-1 sequence that fails to match the
N-terminal motifs.
