VD10PROTEIN
The complete DNA sequence of the genome of vaccinia virus has been 
determined [1]. 198 "major" protein-coding regions and 65 overlapping
"minor" regions have been identified, with a total of 263 potential genes
[1]. The genes are compactly organised along the genome, with few noncoding
regions [1]. The function of the majority of proteins encoded by these open
reading frames is so far undetermined. 

The DNA sequence of the fowlpox virus genome corresponding to the vaccinia
virus D6-A1 region has been deduced [2]. Translation of the sequence
reveals fowlpoxvirus gene homologues corresponding to the D6, D7, D9, D10,
D11, D12, D13 and A1 genes of vaccinia virus [2]. Insertion of a gene
cartridge comprising the vaccinia virus p7.5 promoter and the lacZ gene
into the fowlpox virus D8, D9 and D10 genes was carried out in vitro,
followed by recombination into fowlpox virus [2]. No stable insertion 
mutants were obtained for D10, suggesting that this gene probably encodes
a function essential to virus replication [2]. 

D10, like the D9 protein, contains an evolutionarily conserved MutT domain 
core, which is a characteristic of the NUDIX hydrolase family [3].

VD10PROTEIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for viral
D10 proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the N- and
C-terminal portions of the alignment - motifs 1-4 lie immediately N-terminal
to the MutT domain, and motifs 5 and 6 immediately C-terminal to it. Two
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified.
