RIBORDTASEM1
Ribonucleotide reductase catalyses the reductive synthesis of deoxy-
ribonucleotides from their corresponding ribonucleotides, providing the
necessary precursors for DNA synthesis [1,2]. The enzyme comprises two 
dimers (termed R1 and R2), and contains several redox active cysteine 
residues. The reduction of ribonucleotides to deoxyribonucleotides involves
the transfer of free radicals [3]. The radical-based reaction involves five
cysteines: two of these are located at adjacent anti-parallel strands in a
new type of ten-stranded alpha/beta-barrel; two others reside at the
carboxyl end in a flexible arm; and the fifth, in a loop in the centre of
the barrel, is positioned to initiate the radical reaction [4]. 

There are several regions of similarity in the sequence of the large 
chain of prokaryotes, eukaryotes and viruses spread across 3 domains:
an N-terminal domain common to the mammalian and bacterial enzymes; a
C-terminal domain common to the mammalian and viral ribonucleotide 
reductases; and a central domain common to all three [3]. 

RIBORDTASEM1 is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
ribonucleotide reductase M1 (large) chains. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short
conserved regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment. Five 
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 63 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are ribonucleotide reductases and homologues
that fail to match one or more motifs.
