BR22PROTEIN
There are 4 surfactant proteins (SP) named A-D, that reduce the surface
tension in lung alveoli, preventing the lungs from collapsing. Two of these
proteins are hydrophillic, A and D, and 2 are hydrophobic, B and C. The
hydrophobic proteins are involved in protein respreading and bind
preferentially to anioinic lipids. SP expression is subject to regulation by
several developmental and hormonal factors. Recently, 2 transcription
factors, thyroid transcription factor (TTF)-1 and hepatocyte nuclear factor
(HNF)-3 alpha have been identified as crucial regulators of SP-B
expression. TTF-1 possesses a C-terminal activation domain, which when
deleted in mutants, reduces the transcriptional activity of this protein in
SP-B expression. This suggests that interaction with another factor may be
required for full transcriptional activation [1].

When the promoter region for SP-B was used in conjunction with a reporter
gene to screen a lung cDNA library, a single cDNA encoding a novel
polypeptide, BR22,  was found. Yeast two-hybrid analyses and in vitro
protein interaction studies demonstrate interaction between BR22 and TTF-1.
Furthermore, co-transfection experiments in vivo suggest that TTF-1 and BR22
act synergistically to activate the SP-B promoter [1].

BR22PROTEIN is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
BR22 proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length. A single iteration on SPTR40_20f was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting
set.
