LYMPHOTACTIN
Chemokines are proteins that have important physiological and patho-
physiological roles in a wide range of acute and chronic inflammatory
processes [1]. Their sequences are similar and are characterised by a
4-cysteine motif: the family can be divided according to whether the first 2
Cys residues are adjacent (the C-C family), or separated by an intervening
residue (the C-x-C family).

Two additional chemokine families have also been identified, each containing
only one member. C chemokines have only one of the first two Cys residues,
while C-x3-C chemokines contain both cysteines, separated by three
intervening residues [3]. Lymphotactin is the only known member of the C
chemokine family. It has closest similarity to the C-C chemokines, but
contains only the second and fourth of the conserved cysteine residues. The
chemokine is produced by certain subsets of T cells and natural killer cells,
and is also chemotactic for these cell types [2,3].

LYMPHOTACTIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
lymphotactin precursors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections 
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those areas that 
best characterise the lymphotactin precursors - motif 1 encodes the signal 
peptide; motifs 2 and 3 lie in the extended N-terminal portion of the 
chemokine domain; motif 4 spans beta-strands 1 and 2, and connecting beta-
hairpin; and motif 5 encodes the second beta-hairpin and strand 3. A single
iteration on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
