OMPADOMAIN
The outer membrane proteins of several Gram-negative organisms share a 
C-terminal domain of about 45 residues [1,2]: these include, outer membrane
protein ompA from enterobacteria such as E.coli; outer membrane protein P5
from Haemophilus influenzae; outer membrane protein P.III/class IV from 
Neisseria; outer membrane porin F (gene oprF) from Pseudomonas; protein
TpN50 from Treponema pallidum; peptidoglycan-associated lipoprotein (gene 
pal) from Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Legionella pneumophila
and Pseudomonas putida; outer membrane lipoprotein P6 from Haemophilus 
influenzae; Escherichia coli hypothetical lipoprotein yiaD; and Vibrio 
parahaemolyticus sodium-type flagellar protein motY.

Apart from this domain, these proteins are not otherwise structurally 
related: most are porin-like integral membrane proteins (such as ompA),
but some are small lipid-anchored proteins (such as pal).

OMPADOMAIN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
ompA domain. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 14
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the 
central portion of the alignment - motifs 2 and 3 lie within the region
encoded by PROSITE pattern OMPA (PS01068). Five iterations on OWL30.2 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 61
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of
which appear to be either ompA-domain containing outer membrane proteins,
or peptidoglycan-associated lipoprotein precursors.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 41 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
