REGUCALCIN
Regucalcin, also known as senesence marker protein-30 (SMP30), was
discovered in 1978 as a Ca2+ binding protein that does not contain EF-hand
motifs, suggesting a novel class of Ca2+ binding protein. It is primarily
localised to the liver and kidney cortex of animals. Expression of its mRNA 
in the liver and renal cortex of rats is stimulated by an increase in 
cellular Ca2+ levels [1,2]. 

Regucalin, as a regulatory protein of Ca2+, has a pivotal role in the
control of many cell functions. The protein has a reversible effect on
Ca2+-induced activation and inhibition of many enzymes in both the liver and
renal cortex cells [3]. It has also been shown to inhibit various protein
kinases (including Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase [4], protein
kinase C [5] and tyrosine kinase) and protein phosphatases, indicating a
regulatory role in signal transduction within the cell. In addition,  
regucalcin regulates intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis by enhancing Ca2+- 
pumping activity in the plasma membrane through activation of the pump
enzymes [6]. Moreover, it can inhibit RNA synthesis in the nuclei of normal 
and regenerating rat livers in vitro [7].

Hydropathy profiles indicate hydrophobic domains in both N- and C-terminal 
regions of the regucalcin molecule; the protein also exhibits hydrophilic 
characteristics [1]. Human and rodent regucalcins share 89% sequence 
identity, the high degree of conservation between species suggesting that 
the complete structure is required for physiological function.

REGUCALCIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
regucalcins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the central
and C-terminal portions of the alignment. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set containing 9 
sequences was identified.
