LANTIPROCESS
Pathogenic bacteria produce a number of virulence factors to facilitate
host infection, and to combat competing species [1]. Antibiotics are 
secreted by some pathogenic prokaryotes to lyse cells, some of which have 
been adapted by humans for use against virulent microbes. Amongst these are 
the lantibiotics, produced exclusively by Gram-positive bacteria. 
Lantibiotics are small, heavily post-translationally modified peptides that 
inhibit rival cell growth and are strongly cationic [1]. 

Lantibiotic genes reside on the bacterial chromosome, where they cluster 
with genes that adapt and secrete them to the extracellular space [2]. Many 
of these so-called 'pathogenicity islands' have been characterised, 
including the epidermin (epi) cluster in Staphylococcus epidermis [2], and 
the nisin (nis) cluster in Lactococcus lactis [3]. The gene encoding the 
lantibiotic is flanked by 3 regulatory genes: 2 of these are usually 
involved in a 2-component regulatory system; the other cleaves the signal 
peptide from the precursor to produce the mature lantibiotic.

This protein (usually designated with a "P" suffix - nisP, mutP, etc.) is 
highly conserved amongst pathogenic species, and is essential for virulence 
and survival of the bacterium against competitors in the host [4]. Recently,
a novel pathogenicity island in resistant Enterococcus faecalis was 
sequenced. In addition to the lantibiotic Cyl gene cluster, this revealed a 
novel set of virulence factors involved in vancomycin resistance and 
pathogenicity [5]. 

LANTIPROCESS is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
lantibiotic leader peptide processing proteins. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning the C-terminal portion of the alignment. A single
iteration on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
