NISCPROTEIN
The LanC-like protein superfamily encompasses a highly divergent group of
peptide-modifying enzymes, including the eukaryotic and bacterial 
lanthionine synthetase C-like proteins (LanC) [1-3]; subtilin biosynthesis
protein SpaC from Bacillus subtilis [4,5]; epidermin biosynthesis protein
EpiC from Staphylococcus epidermidis [6]; nisin biosynthesis protein NisC 
from Lactoccocus lactis [7-9]; GCR2 from Arabidopsis thaliana [10]; and
many others.  

The 3D structure of the lantibiotic cyclase from L.lactis has been
determined by X-ray crystallography to 2.5A resolution [11]. The globular
structure is characterised by an all-alpha fold, in which an outer ring
of helices envelops an inner toroid composed of 7 shorter, hydrophobic 
helices. This 7-fold hydrophobic periodicity has led several authors to 
claim various members of the family, including eukaryotic LanC-1 and GCR2,
to be novel G protein-coupled receptors [10,12]; some of these claims have
since been corrected [2,13,14].

Nisin biosynthesis protein NisC [15-17] is believed to be involved in the 
cyclisation of the lantibiotic nisin: specifically, nisin contains 5 cyclic
thioethers, which are installed by the NisC enzyme.

NISCPROTEIN is a 12-element fingerprint that provides a signature for nisin
biosynthesis protein NisC. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise the NisC proteins but distinguish them from closely
related members of the LanC-like protein superfamily - each of the motifs 
encompass part of the helical structure of the protein. A single iteration
on SPTR55_38f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set. A single partial match was also found,
Q2QBS7_STRUB, a divergent member of the LanC-like superfamily from 
Streptococcus uberis, which matches motifs 7 and 8.
