CD36FAMILY
CD36 is a transmembrane, highly glycosylated, 88kDa glycoprotein [1] 
expressed by monocytes, macrophages, platelets, microvascular endothelial 
cells and adipose tissue [2]. It is a multifunctional receptor that binds
to oxidised LDL (OxLDL), long chain fatty acids, anionic phospholipids,
apoptotic cells, thrombospondin (TSP), collagen and Plasmodium falciparum-
infected erythrocytes [2].

CD36 has numerous cellular functions. It is a type B scavenger receptor, 
playing a major role in the uptake of OxLDL by macrophages [3]. The lipid-
rich macrophages are then differentiated into foam cells and contribute to
the formation of atherosclerotic lesions [3]. In addition, CD36 of macro-
phages, together with TSP and the integrin alphav beta3, can phagocytose 
apoptotic neutrophils [4]. Furthermore, the protein is one of the receptors
of collagen in platelet adhesion and aggregation [5,6]. CD36 can also
mediate cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes to the
endothelium of post-capillary venules of different organs [7]. Moreover, 
cytoplasmic CD36 plays an important role in signal transduction by inter-
acting with Src family tyrosine kinases [8]. Deficiency in CD36 in Asian
and African populations has been associated with insulin resistance [9]. 

Lysosome membrane protein II (LIMP II) is a 478-residue glycoprotein
expressed in the membrane of lysosomes and secretory granules with lysosomal
properties [10]. The N-terminal segment (residues ~4-26) constitute an 
uncleavable signal peptide [10]. LIMP II possesses an additional C-terminal
hydrophobic region that, together with the signal peptide, may anchor the
protein to the membrane [10]. The major portion of the protein resides on
the luminal side and contains 11 potential N-glycosylation sites and 5 
cysteine residues. The N- and C-terminal ends of the protein constitute
short cytoplasmic tails. 

Comparison of the sequence to that of other lysosomal membrane glycoproteins
reveals no similarity. Glycine-tyrosine residues (the so-called GY motif),
believed to constitute an important signal for delivery of lysosomal 
membrane glycoproteins to lysosomes, are not contained in the cytoplasmic 
tail [11,12]. The protein thus appears to be a unique LIMP that does not 
require tyrosine residues for targeting to lysosomes [11]. Sequence database 
searches reveal extensive similarity between LIMP II and the cell surface 
protein CD36 involved in cell adhesion [10]. 

CD36FAMILY is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
adhesion molecule CD36 family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the putative extracellular domain. Seven iterations on SPTR40_18f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 29
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of
which are proteins related to the CD36 family that fail to make significant
matches with one or more motifs.
