MPTASEINHBTR
A number of Gram-positive bacteria (including Pseudomonas fluorescens,
Erwinia chrysanthemi, Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas tolaasii and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa) secrete a monomeric inhibitor of the extracellular
proteases a, b and c of the 50Kda extracellular metalloprotease or other
alkaline protease [1-4]. It forms a non-covalent interaction with its target
protease and may prevent its autocatalytic cleavage in the periplasm.

Structurally and functionally these proteins are closely related to the 
lipocalins, fatty acid-binding proteins, avidins and the enigmatic triabin.
Together these five protein families constitute the calycin superfamily [5]. 
The proteins are characterised by their high specificity for small hydro-
phobic molecules and by their ability to form complexes with soluble macro-
molecules either through intramolecular disulphides or protein-protein 
interactions [6]. The crystal structure of a metalloprotease inhibitor has
been solved [7]. The complex reveals the characteristic calycin-like fold: 
an 8-stranded anti-parallel beta-barrel.  

MPTASEINHBTR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
metalloprotease inhibitors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from strategically selected
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length - motif 1 spans the
functionally important N-terminus, 310 helix and characteristic calycin 
motif at the beginning of strand 1; motif 2 encodes the end of strand 3 and
the helical region beyond it; motif 3 spans strands 5 and 6 and the loop
connecting them; and motif 4 encodes strand 7 and flanking loop regions.
Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergance, at which
point a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified.
