EP450ICYP2A
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1], widely
distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes are involved
in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous compounds [2].
Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multi-component electron transfer
chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems.

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450
superfamily, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [3]. On the basis
of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2 main classes,
the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic 3-component
systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all other known
P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class [4]. E-class P450s may be
further divided into 5 subclasses (groups) according to protein sequence
similarities. The data suggest that divergence of the P450 superfamily 
into B- and E-classes, and further divergence into stable P450 groups 
within the E-class, must be very ancient and had occured before the 
appearance of eukaryotes. 

Due to the rapid increase in numbers of P450s, Nelson introduced the concept
of a higher order classification of P450 families into clans [5,6] based on 
sequence similarity. This is similar to the previous grouping into B- and
E-classes; both classifications are still used. According to Nelson's 
system, clan 2 contains the CYP2 plus CYP1, 17, 18, 21 and 71 families, and
corresponds to the E-class group I proteins [6]. Members of the first 4
families are of vertebrate origin, while those from CYP71 derive from plants.
CYP1 and CYP2 enzymes mainly metabolise exogenous substrates, while CYP17
and CYP21 are involved in metabolism of endogenous physiologically-active
compounds. 

The CYP2 family, comprising 15 subfamilies (A-H, J-N, P and Q), is the most
dominant in clan 2. Six of these subfamilies are non-mammalian: 2H derives
from chicken; 2K, 2M, 2N and 2P are from fish; 2L is from lobster; and 2Q
from Xenopus [5]. The first five (A-E) are present in mammalian liver, but
in differing amounts and with different inducibilities [7]. These five 
subfamilies show varied substrate specificities, with some degree of 
overlap. The various mammalian orthologues of the CYP2A subfamily (of which
2A1, 2A2 and 2A3 are the rat forms, 2A4 and 2A5 are the mouse forms, and
2A6 and 2A7 represent those in human) exhibit some interesting inter-species
differences, indicating possible evolutionary modifications that may 
represent responses to dietary challenges [7]. The CYP2A gene is located on
chromosome 19 in mouse and man [3].

EP450ICYP2A is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
CYP2A P450 family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
13 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that
characterise the CYP2A proteins but distinguish them from the rest of the
CYP2 family - using the model of de Groot et al. [8], motif 1 lies in the
N-terminal membrane anchor domain; motif 2 spans the N-terminal region of
the G helix, and is located between substrate recognition site (SRS) 2 and
SRS 3; motif 3 encodes the J' helix between the J and K helices; and motif 
4 encodes the K' helix between SRS 5 and the haem-binding domain. Two 
iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 19 sequences was identified. A single partial match
was also found, Q92129, a P450 from Xenopus that matches motifs 3 and 4.
