CALFLAGIN
The protozoan parasite that causes Chagas' disease, Trypanosoma cruzi, 
contains a 24kDa protein that is recognised by antiera from both humans and
experimental animals infected with this organism [1]. Near its C-terminus 
are two regions that have sequence similarity with E-F hand Ca2+-binding
proteins [1]. Indeed, the native trypanosome protein exhibits low Ca2+-
binding capacity and high Ca2+-binding affinity, consistent with binding
via E-F hand structures. Immunofluorescence assays have suggested that the
protein is localised to the trypanosome's flagellum [1]. This observation,
coupled with the protein's Ca2+-binding properties, suggests that it may
participate in molecular processes associated with the high motility of 
the parasite [1]. 

A set of similar 24 kDa proteins, termed calflagins, are contained within
the flagellum of Trypanosoma brucei [2]. These contain three EF-hand Ca2+-
binding domains and one degenerate EF-hand motif [2].

CALFLAGIN is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
flagellar calcium-binding calflagins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the full alignment length - motifs 4, 5 and 7 each encode 
part or all of a putative Ca2+-binding site, motif 4 representing the 
degenerate EF-hand. Two iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 18 sequences was 
identified. Two partial matches were also found, A4H8L5_LEIBR and 
A4HWY6_LEIIN, putative family members that fail to make a significant match
with motif 1, with and motifs 1 and 8, respectively.
