THEMAYE10DUF
The 1,860,725bp genome of Thermotoga maritima MSB8 contains 1,877 predicted
coding regions, 46% of which are of unknown function [1]. Similarly, the
complete 1.66Mb genome sequence of the autotrophic archaeon, Methanococcus
jannaschii, has been determined, only 38% of which could be assigned 
cellular roles with high confidence [2]. Of the Eubacteria sequenced to 
date, T.maritima has the highest percentage (24%) of genes that are most 
similar to archaeal genes [1]. Eighty-one archaeal-like genes, ranging in
size from 4-20kb, are clustered in 15 regions of the T.maritima genome [1].
Conservation of gene order between T.maritima and Archaea in many of these
regions suggests that lateral gene transfer may have occurred between
thermophilic Eubacteria and Archaea [1]. 

One of the Thermotoga maritima sequences (hypothetical protein TM1410) 
shares similarity with Methanococcus jannaschii hypothetical protein MJ1477
and with hypothetical protein DR0705 from Deinococcus radiodurans. The 
sequences are characterised by relatively variable N- and C-terminal domains,
and a more conserved central domain. They share no similarity with any other 
known, functionally or structurally characterised proteins. 

THEMAYE10DUF is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Thermotoga maritima hypothetical protein TM1410 and related proteins. The
fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs
were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment
length. A single iteration on SPTR39_15f was required to reach convergence,
no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
