PPNRPEPTIDEB
Two closely related neuropeptide precursors, which share no significant
sequence similarity with other known neuropeptides, have recently been
identified and named preproneuropeptide B and preproneuropeptide W [1-3]. In
humans, each precursor contains a signal sequence and two dibasic cleavage
sites. Alternative cleavage of these sites results in long (29 or 30 amino
acid) and short (23 amino acid) forms of the resultant neuropeptides [1,2].
Murine, rat and bovine versions of preproneuropeptide B, however, contain
only the second cleavage site, resulting in only the long form of 
neuropeptide B [2,3].

Neuropeptide B is expressed in both the central nervous system (CNS) and in
the periphery. In the CNS, highest levels of the peptide are found in the
substantia nigra and hypothalamus, suggesting a possible role in locomotor
control and the release of pituitary hormones [2]. In the periphery, the
peptide is most abundant in testis, ovary, uterus, placenta, spleen, lymph
nodes and peripheral blood leukocytes, indicating potential roles in the
reproductive and immune systems [2]. Unusually, neuropeptide B purified from
bovine hypothalamus was found to be brominated at its N-terminus [3].

PPNRPEPTIDEB is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
neuropeptide B precursor. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those areas
that characterise neuropeptide B precursors but distinguish them from
closely related neuropeptide W precursors - motif 1 lies in the central
region encoding neuropeptide B; and motifs 2-4 span the C-terminal region.
A single iteration on SPTR40_22f was required to reach convergence, no
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
