CRFRECEPTOR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The secretin-like GPCRs include secretin [2], calcitonin [3], parathyroid
hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptides [4] and vasoactive intestinal
peptide [5], all of which activate adenylyl cyclase and the phosphatidyl-
inositol-calcium pathway. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 domains, in a
manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to inter-
act with G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been
proposed to account for this, there is no significant sequence similarity
between these families: the secretin-like receptors thus bear their own
unique '7TM' signature.

Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is the principal neuroregulator of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, playing an important role in
coordinating the endocrine, autonomic and behavioral responses to stress
and immune challenge [6]. The CRF receptor has been found in human cortex
tissue, pituitary, brainstem and testis [7]. The protein comprises 415 
amino acid residues with the characterstic 7TM architecture of the
secretin-like GPCR superfamily. Three isoforms (designated CRF-R1, CRF-R2
and CRF-R3) are produced as a result of alternative splicing of the same
gene: CRF-R1 appears to be the predominant form; CRF-R3 does not bind to
CRF with a high affinity [6].

CRFRECEPTOR is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
corticotropin releasing factor receptors. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise the CRF receptors but distinguish them from the
rest of the secretin-like GPCR superfamily - motifs 1-4 span the putative
extracellular domain; motif 5 encodes TM domain 1; motif 6 spans the second
cytoplasmic loop; motif 7 spans the second extracellular loop and the
N-terminus of TM domain 5; motif 8 resides in the third cytoplasmic loop;
motif 9 spans the C-terminus of TM domain 6 and the third extracellular 
loop; and motif 10 resides at the C-terminus. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 12
sequences was identified. A single partial match was found, DIHR_ACHDO, a
closely related diuretic hormone receptor that matches motifs 1 and 3.
