CCMCBIOGNSIS
Within mitochondria and bacteria, a family of related proteins is involved
in the assembly of periplasmic c-type cytochromes: these include CycK [1],
CcmF [2,3], NrfE [4] and CcbS [5]. These proteins may play a role in 
guidance of apocytochromes and haem groups for their covalent linkage 
by the cytochrome-c-haem lyase. Members of the family are probably integral
membrane proteins, with up to 16 predicted transmembrane (TM) helices. 

The gene products of the hel and ccl loci have been shown to be required
specifically for the biogenesis of c-type cytochromes in the Gram-negative
photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus [6]. Genetic and molecular
analyses show that the hel locus contains at least 4 genes, helA, helB, helC
and orf52 [6]. HelA is similar to the ABC transporters and helA, helB, and
helC are proposed to encode an export complex [4]. It is believed that the
hel-encoded proteins are required for the export of haem to the periplasm,
where it is subsequently ligated to the c-type apocytochromes [6]. However,
while CcmB and CcmC have the potential to interact with CcmA, the 3 gene 
products probably associating to form a complex with (CcmA)2-CcmB-CcmC
stoichiometry, the substrate for the putative CcmABC-transporter is probably
neither haem nor c-type apocytochromes [3]. Hydropathy analysis suggests
the presence of 6 TM domains.

CCMCBIOGNSIS is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
cytochrome c-type biogenesis protein CcmC. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 lies
immediately C-terminal to TM domain 1; motif 2 includes TM domain 2; motif 3
encodes the C-terminal half of TM domain 3; motif 4 encodes the N-terminal
half of TM domain 4; and motifs 5 and 6 span TM domains 5 and 6 respectively.
Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which 
point a true set comprising 15 sequences was identified. Three partial 
matches were also found, all of which are closely related sequences that
fail to match the C-terminal motifs.
