GPR153
Computational methods, including percent identity plots, hydropathy profiles
and BLAST, have been used to analyse a gene-rich cluster at human chromosome
12p13 and to compare it with its syntenic region in mouse chromosome 6 [1-3].
Of 6 genes identified, one of these, termed Gene A, revealed 3 splice forms:
form A2 demonstrated a clear 7-transmembrane (TM) hydropathy profile, and
showed very weak similarity to members of the G protein-coupled receptor 
(GPCR) superfamily [3].

GPCRs mediate a wide range of physiological functions, are major drug
targets, and are consequently the subject of considerable research interest.
In 2003, Vassilatis et al. reported that the repertoire of GPCRs for 
endogenous ligands consisted of 367 receptors in humans and 392 in mice,
including 26 from human and 83 from mouse that had not been identified
previously [4]. 

Of these novel receptors, GP153 (also known as PGR1) does show some
similarity to rhodopsin-class GPCRs (most notably to certain tyramine and
serotonin receptors, particularly in the region of TM domain 4), but the
overall degree of similarity is very low, and evidence that GP153 is a
functional GPCR has not been gathered experimentally.

GPR153 is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the GP153
7TM protein. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 
sequences - the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise
GP153 but distinguish it from closely related GP162 proteins. Two iterations
on SPTR55_38f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 5 sequences was identified.
