PYOCINKILLER
Pyocins S1 and S2 are S-type bacteriocins of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with
different receptor recognition specificities [1]. The genetic determinants
of these pyocins have been cloned from the NIH-H and PAO chromosomes of 
P.aeruginosa [1]. The determinants each constitute an operon that encodes
two proteins of molecular weight 65,600 and 10,000 (pyocin S1) or 74,000 and
10,000 (pyocin S2) with a characteristic sequence (P box), a possible 
regulatory element involved in the induction of pyocin production, in the 
5' upstream region [1]. These pyocins have almost identical sequences,
except in the N-terminal portions of the large proteins, which are
substantially different. This similarity suggests that S1 and S2 pyocins, 
like pyocin AP41, originated from a common ancestor of the E2 group colicins
[1]. Purified pyocins S1 and S2 constitute a complex of the two proteins.
Both pyocins cause breakdown of chromosomal DNA and complete inhibition of
lipid synthesis in sensitive cells [1]. The large protein (not the complex),
shows in vitro DNase activity [1]. This activity is inhibited by the small
protein of either pyocin [1].

PYOCINKILLER is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
large component of pyocin S killer proteins. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment. A single
iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identified beyond the starting set. Four partial matches
were found, including the large component of pyocin AP41 and related
colicins, all of which match the C-terminal motifs.
