BACINVASINC
Some Gram-negative animal enteropathogens express a specialised secretion 
system to directly "inject" exotoxins into the cytoplasm of host cells. 
Dubbed the type III secretion system, it is of specific interest to 
researchers, as the components of such a system are only expressed in 
pathogenic strains [1]. The system is composed of structural proteins and 
exotoxin effectors; these are often encoded on large virulence plasmids
or on the bacterial chromosome itself [1].

The Shigella flexneri invasion plasmid antigen (ipa) genes are found on such 
a plasmid, and are highly regulated [2]. Homologues of the ipa genes 
(SipC/SspC) have been found in Salmonella typhimurium [3], and both 
pathogens utilise their type III system to translocate their invasive 
effectors. These are responsible for interacting directly with the host 
eukaryotic cell. IpaC can activate cellular kinase activity once in the 
host cytoplasm, and thus promotes cellular uptake of Shigella flexneri [4]. 
In addition, it has been found that SipC interacts with another Salmonella 
protein, SipA, to enhance its reorganisation of the host cell actin 
cytoskeleton, thereby facilitating cellular uptake of the Salmonella 
bacterium by the eukaryotic cell [4].

BACINVASINC is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
the Salmonella/Shigella invasin protein C family. The fingerprint was 
derived from an initial alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn
from conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length. Two 
iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 6 sequences were identified. 
