LUXSPROTEIN
Bacterial species have many methods of controlling gene expression and cell
growth. Regulation of gene expression in response to changes in cell density
is termed quorum sensing [1,2]. Quorum-sensing bacteria produce, release and
respond to hormone-like molecules (autoinducers) that accumulate in the 
external environment as the cell population grows. Once a threshold of these
molecules is reached, a signal transduction cascade is triggered that 
ultimately leads to behavioural changes in the bacterium [2]. In the marine
bacterium Vibrio harveyi, two parallel quorum-sensing systems are found
(designated AI-1 and AI-2), each comprising a sensor-autoinducer pair [2].

It has been suggested that quorum-sensing might play a part in the virulence
of some pathogens. Regulation of these genes differs between virulent and
benign strains [2]. In the former, production of autoinducers ceases when
the organism reaches stationary growth phase [3], and may allow pathogenesis
to take place [4]. The AI-2 system appears to be the most important in these
processes. A two-component regulon controls the system, the gene LuxS being
responsible for synthesis of the autoinducers. Organisms as diverse as 
Helicobacter pylori, Vibrio harveyi, Clostridium perfringens and Shigella 
flexneri [4] contain this gene.

LUXSPROTEIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
bacterial autoinducer-2 (AI-2) production protein LuxS. The fingerprint was 
derived from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length (~120 amino acids). Two
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point 
a true set comprising 9 sequences was identified. A single partial match was
also found, LUXS_BORBU, a Borrelia burgdoferi LuxS protein that matches
motifs 4 and 5.
