TRNSINTIMINR
Secretion of virulence factors in Gram-negative bacteria involves 
transportation of the protein across two membranes to reach the cell 
exterior [1]. There have been four secretion systems described in 
animal enteropathogens, such as Salmonella and Yersinia, with further 
sequence similarities in plant pathogens like Ralstonia and Erwinia [1].

The type III secretion system is of great interest, as it is used to 
transport virulence factors from the pathogen directly into the host cell 
[1] and is only triggered when the bacterium comes into close contact with
the host. The protein subunits of the system are very similar to those of 
bacterial flagellar biosynthesis [1]. However, while the latter forms a
ring structure to allow secretion of flagellin and is an integral part of
the flagellum itself [1], type III subunits in the outer membrane 
translocate secreted proteins through a channel-like structure.

Exotoxins secreted by the type III system do not possess a secretion signal,
and are considered unique for this reason [1]. Enteropathogenic and entero-
haemorrhagic Escherichia coli secrete the translocated intimin receptor
(Tir) [1]. The bacterial adhesion molecule, intimin, targets Tir, which is
embedded in the target cell's plasma membrane [2], and allows the 
bacterial cell to attach to the host.

TRNSINTIMINR is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
translocated intimin receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the full alignment length (~550 amino acids). Two iterations on
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 6 sequences was identified.
