MTABOTROPC1R
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The metabotropic glutamate receptors are functionally and pharmacologically
distinct from the ionotropic glutamate receptors. They are coupled to G-
proteins and stimulate the inositol phosphate/Ca2+ intracellular signalling 
pathway [2-5]. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain 2 domains:
a large extracellular domain, and a membrane-associated domain that contains
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 regions, in a manner
reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to interact with
G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been proposed to
account for this, there is no significant sequence identity between these
and receptors of the rhodopsin-type family: the metabotropic glutamate
receptors thus bear their own distinctive '7TM' signature. This 7TM
signature is also shared by the calcium-sensing receptors.

At least eight sub-types of metabotropic receptor (MGR1-8) have been 
identified in cloning studies. The sub-types differ in their agonist 
pharmacology and signal transduction pathways [6]. mRNA for MGR1 is
widespread in the brain and is abundant in neuronal cells in hippocampal
dentate gyrus and CA2-3 regions, cerebellum Purkinje cells, olfactory bulb
and thalamic nuclei [6]. MGR1 activates the phosphoinositide pathway,
probably via a G protein of the Gq/G11 class; pertussis toxin partially
inhibits the response to MGR1, but not to MGR5 [6].

MTABOTROPC1R is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 precursor. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise the metabotropic glutamate type 1 receptors but 
distinguish them from the rest of the metabotropic glutamate receptor family
- motifs 1-5 reside in the N-terminal extracellular domain; and motifs 6-9 
lie in the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. A single iteration on OWL31.1 was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set. Several partial matches were found: HSU31216, HUMMGLUB 
and S71376 are type 1 receptor homologues that fail to match 3 motifs; and 
JC2132, MGR5_HUMAN and MGR5_RAT are type 5 receptors that match two motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 2 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
