MITP450CC24
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1],
widely distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes
are involved in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous
compounds [2]. Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multi-component
electron transfer chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems. 

P450-containing monooxygenase systems primarily fall into 2 major classes:
bacterial/mitochondrial (type I); and microsomal (type II). Alternatively,
P450-containing systems can be classified according to the number of their
protein components [3]: mitochondrial and most bacterial P450 systems have
3 components - an FAD-containing flavoprotein (NADPH or NADH-dependent
reductase), an iron-sulphur protein, and P450; the eukaryotic microsomal 
P450 system contains 2 components - NADPH:P450 reductase (a flavoprotein
containing both FAD and FMN) and P450; and a soluble monooxygenase P450BM-3
from Bacillus megaterium exists as a single polypeptide chain with 2 
functional parts (the haem and flavin domains), and represents a unique 
bacterial one-component system - sequence and functional comparisons show
that these domains are more similar to P450 and the flavoprotein of the
microsomal 2-component P450 monooxygenase system than to the relevant
proteins of the 3-component system [4].

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450 
superfamily, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [5]. On the basis 
of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2 main groups, 
the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic 3-component 
systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all other known 
P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class. The data suggest that 
divergence of the P450 superfamily into B- and E-classes, and further 
divergence into stable P450 groups within the E-class, must be very ancient
and had occured before the appearance of eukaryotes. 

By contrast with the B-class, containing water-soluble haemoproteins, 
most E-class P450s are membrane-bound. Membranous P450s can be divided into
those from the inner mitochondrial membrane (mitochondrial type), and those
from membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (microsomal type). In the
mitochondrial P450-containing monooxygenase system, P450 can be reduced by
the 2Fe-2S iron-sulphur protein adrenodoxin, which can accept electrons
from NADPH-dependent adrenodoxin reductase. Both adrenodoxin and
adrenodoxin reductase are soluble, and located in the mitochondrial matrix 
[6]. Microsomal P450s depend on a single NADPH:P450 reductase; the P450s
and the reductase are located on the cytosolic side of the ER membrane, and
are anchored to the membrane by hydrophobic amino-terminal segments [7].  

To date, only animal mitochondrial P450s have been sequenced. P450scc
(CYP11A) is responsible for conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone [8].
P450s from the CYP11B subfamily catalyse 11-beta- or 18-hydroxylation of
steroids [9]. The CYP27 family contain enzymes involved in 25-hydroxylation
of vitamin D3 and sterol 26- and 27-hydroxylation [10]. P450 from pond
snail (CYP10) is highly similar to the mitochondrial P450, although its
cellular location is unknown [11].

A cDNA encoding 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 24-hydroxylase (P450cc24) has been
isolated from rat kidney [12]. The cDNA contained a 1542bp open reading
frame encoding 514 amino acids, including an N-terminal presequence typical
of mitochondrial enzymes [12]. The sequence shows less than 30% similarity 
to those of other cytochrome P450s, and hence P450cc24 constitutes a novel
P450 family [12]. The enzyme catalyses the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin
D3 and 1-alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 to 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and
1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D3, respectively [13].

MITP450CC24 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
mammalian CC24 mitochondrial P450. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved 
regions, focusing on those sections of the alignment that characterise CC24 
P450s but distinguish them from other mitochondrial P450s. A single
iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identifed beyond the starting set. A single partial match
was found, O73684, a chicken 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3) 24-hydroxylase that
matches motifs 1,2 and 4.
