WNT6PROTEIN
Wnt proteins constitute a large family of secreted molecules that are
involved in intercellular signalling during development. The name derives
from the first 2 members of the family to be discovered: int-1 (mouse) and
wingless (Drosophila) [1]. It is now recognised that Wnt signalling controls
many cell fate decisions in a variety of different organisms, including
mammals [2]. Wnt signalling has been implicated in tumorigenesis, early
mesodermal patterning of the embryo, morphogenesis of the brain and kidneys,
regulation of mammary gland proliferation and Alzheimer's disease [3,4].

Wnt-mediated signalling is believed to proceed initially through binding to
cell surface receptors of the frizzled family; the signal is subsequently
transduced through several cytoplasmic components to B-catenin, which enters
the nucleus and activates the transcription of several genes important in
development [5]. More recently, however, several non-canonical Wnt
signalling pathways have been elucidated that act independently of
B-catenin [6]. Members of the Wnt gene family are defined by their sequence
similarity to mouse Wnt-1 and Wingless in Drosophila. They encode proteins
of ~350-400 residues in length, with orthologues identified in several,
mostly vertebrate, species. Very little is known about the structure of 
Wnts as they are notoriously insoluble; in terms of primary structure, the
family is characterised by a signal sequence and an almost invariant pattern
of 23-24 conserved cysteines [1]. Fifteen major Wnt gene families have been 
identified in vertebrates, with multiple subtypes within some classes.

Wnt-6 cDNA was isolated from mouse using a PCR-based strategy, where it
was found to be expressed in adult tissues, particularly in brain and lung
[7]. Furthermore, Wnt-6 is expressed in the ureter bud, where it is believed
to activate kidney tubule development [8].

WNT6PROTEIN is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for Wnt-6 
proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 2
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the N-
terminal half of the alignment, focusing on those sections that characterise
Wnt-6 proteins but distinguish them from related Wnt subtypes - motif 1 lies
near the N-terminus, preceded by the putative signal peptide; and motifs 2 
and 3 reside in regions between conserved cysteine residues. A single 
iteration on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no further 
sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
