PRTACTNFAMLY
Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus that causes 
pertussis (whooping cough), especially in young children [1]. Once present 
in the lungs, the bacterium attaches to ciliated pulmonary epithelial cells 
via a collection of outer membrane proteins, all of which are virulence 
factors [1].

Pertactin, or P69 protein, is one of these virulence factors. Pertactin and
filamentous haemagglutinin have been identified as bordetella adhesins [2]. 
Both proteins contain an arg-gly-asp (RGD) motif that promotes binding to
integrins, known to be important in cell mobility and development [2]. The
production of most bordetella virulence factors (including pertactin) is 
controlled by a two-component signal transduction system, comprising the
BvgA regulator and the BvgS sensor [3]. Pertactin shares a high level of
similarity with other bordetella adhesins [3]. The protein is first produced
as a 93kDa precursor. Upon secretion into the extracellular environment, a
30kDa domain at the C-terminus remains in the outer membrane, while the
mature 60.4kDa pertactin molecule is released [4].

The crystal structure of mature pertactin has been determined to 2.5A 
resolution by means of X-ray diffraction {4]. The fold is characterised by
a 16-stranded parallel beta-helix, with a V-shaped cross-section. Several
between-strand amino-acid repeats form internal and external ladders [4].
The helical structure is interrupted by several protruding loops that
contain motifs associated with the activity of the protein [4]. One 
such sequence - [GGXXP]5 - appears directly after the RGD motif, and may
mediate interaction with epithelial cells [4]. The C-terminal region of
P.69 pertactin contains a [PQP]5 motif loop, which contains the major
immunoprotective epitope [4]. 

The tcfA gene of Bordetella pertussis encodes a unique virulence-associated 
factor, Tcf (tracheal colonisation factor) [5]. The derived amino acid
sequence of tcfA predicts a 68kDa RGD-containing, proline-rich protein.
Amino acid sequence analysis reveals that the C-terminal 30kDa of this
protein shares ~50% identity with the 30kDa C-terminus of the Bordetella
pertactin precursor [5]. 

The Bordetella resistance to killing, brk, locus has cloned and sequenced
and found to encode two divergently transcribed open reading frames (ORFs),
designated BrkA and BrkB [6]. Both ORFs are necessary for serum resistance.
BrkA shares ~29% identity with pertactin and contains two RGD motifs, in 
addition to a proteolytic processing site and an outer membrane targeting
signal [6]. BrkA, like pertactin, is involved in adherence and invasion [6].

PRTACTNFAMLY is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
pertactin virulence factor family. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment, which has been 
identified as the putative pertactin propeptide. Two iterations on 
SPTR39_15f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 15 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, O66044, a VAG8 protein from B.pertussis that matches motifs 2 and 4-8.
