NAHEXCHNGR6
Na+/H+ exchange proteins eject protons from cells, effectively eliminating
excess acid from actively metabolising cells. Na+/H+ exchange activity is
also crucial for the regulation of cell volume, and for the reabsorption of
NaCl across renal, intestinal, and other epithelia. These antiports exchange
Na+ for H+ in an electroneutral manner, and this activity is carried out by
a family of Na+/H+ exchangers, or NHEs, which are known to be present in
both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. In mammalian cells, Na+/H+ exchange
activity is found in both the plasma membrane and inner mitochondrial
membrane. To date, six mammalian isoforms have been identified (designated
NHE1-NHE6) [1,2]. These exchangers are highly-regulated (glyco)phospho-
proteins, which, based on their primary structure, appear to contain 10-12
membrane-spanning regions at the N-terminus and a large cytoplasmic region
at the C-terminus. There is some evidence that they may exist in the cell
membrane as homodimers, but little is currently known about the mechanism
of their antiport [3].

NHE6 is a putative human mitochondrial Na+/H+ exchanger that is similar to
NHa2, an S.cerevisiae mitochondrial Na+/H+ exchanger [2]. NHE6 (although
ubquitously expressed) is particularly abundant in mitochondrion-rich
tissues such as brain, skeletal muscle and heart.

NAHEXCHNGR6 is a 15-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Na+/H+ exchanger isoform 6 (NHE6). The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise NHE6 but distinguish it from other NHE isoforms -
motif 1 resides within the N-terminal putative cytoplasmic domain; motif 2
spans part of the N-terminus and transmembrane (TM) domain 1; motif 3 spans
the C-terminus of TM domain 1 and the following extracellular loop; motif 4 
spans the C-terminus of the first extracellular loop and about half the 
following TM domain; motif 5 encodes the remainder of TM domain 2, the first
cytoplasmic loop, and the first residues of TM domain 3; motif 6 encodes the
remainder of TM domain 3 and part of the second extracellular loop; motif 7
resides within the second extracellular loop; motif 8 encodes the C-terminus
of TM domain 7 and the following extracellular loop; motif 9 spans TM domain
8 and the following cytoplasmic loop; and the remaining motifs, 10-15, reside
within the C-terminal cytoplasmic region. A single iteration on OWL31.1 was
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond
the starting set. A single partial match was found, HS71L161, a human
sequence containing a putative Na+/H+ exchanger that matches motifs 8-10.

An update on OWL31_3 identified a true set of 2 sequences, and 2
partial matches.
