LIMPII
Lysosome membrane protein II (LIMP II) is a 478-residue glycoprotein
expressed in the membrane of lysosomes and secretory granules with lysosomal
properties [1]. The N-terminal segment (residues ~4-26) constitute an 
uncleavable signal peptide [1]. LIMP II possesses an additional C-terminal
hydrophobic region that, together with the signal peptide, may anchor the
protein to the membrane [1]. The major portion of the protein resides on the
luminal side and contains 11 potential N-glycosylation sites and 5 cysteine
residues. The N- and C-terminal ends of the protein constitute short 
cytoplasmic tails. 

Comparison of the sequence to that of other lysosomal membrane glycoproteins
reveals no similarity. Glycine-tyrosine residues (the so-called GY motif),
believed to constitute an important signal for delivery of lysosomal 
membrane glycoproteins to lysosomes, are not contained in the cytoplasmic 
tail [2,3]. The protein thus appears to be a unique LIMP that does not 
require tyrosine residues for targeting to lysosomes [2]. Sequence database 
searches reveal extensive similarity between LIMP II and the cell surface 
protein CD36 involved in cell adhesion [1]. 

LIMPII is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for lysosome
membrane protein LIMP II. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that
characterise LIMP II proteins but distinguish them from the rest of the
CD36 adhesion molecule family - motif 1 encodes the first TM domain; motifs
2-8 span the lumenal domain; and motif 9 encodes the C-terminal cytoplasmic
tail. Two iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 3 sequences was identified. 
