GLUCAGNLIKER
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The secretin-like GPCRs include secretin [2], calcitonin [3], parathyroid
hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptides [4] and vasoactive intestinal
peptide [5], all of which activate adenylyl cyclase and the phosphatidyl-
inositol-calcium pathway. The amino acid sequences of the receptors contain
high proportions of hydrophobic residues grouped into 7 domains, in a
manner reminiscent of the rhodopsins and other receptors believed to inter-
act with G proteins. However, while a similar 3D framework has been
proposed to account for this, there is no significant sequence similarity
between these families: the secretin-like receptors thus bear their own
unique '7TM' signature.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), which is encoded by the glucagon gene and
released from the gut in response to nutrients, is a potent stimulator of
glucose-induced insulin secretion and proinsulin gene expression of
pancreatic beta-cells [6,7]. In humans, GLP-I exerts its physiological
effect as an incretin. Patients with insulinoma tumors show uncontrolled 
insulin hypersecretion [6]. The GLP-I receptor binds GLP-1 with high 
affinity and couples to activation of adenylate cyclase [8]. The receptor
specifically binds GLP-1 and not peptides of related structure and function,
such as glucagon, gastric inhibitory peptide, VIP or secretin [8]. It is
thought that GLP-I might have effects beyond the pancreas, including the 
cardiovascular and central nervous systems, where a receptor with the same
ligand-binding specificity is found [7].  

GLUCAGNLIKER is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
glucagon-like peptide 1 receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptors, but
distinguish them from the rest of the glucagon receptor family - motifs 1-5
span the N-terminal putative extracellular domain; motif 6 lies in the first
extracellular loop; and motifs 7 and 8 reside at the cytoplasmic C-terminus.
A single iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no 
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
