NEUROTENSIN
Neurotensin is a 13-residue peptide transmitter, sharing significant
similarity in its 6 C-terminal amino acid residues with several other
neuropeptides, including neuromedin N (which is derived from the same
precursor). This C-terminal region is responsible for the full biological
activity, the N-terminal portion having a modulatory role [1]. 

Neurotensin is distributed throughout the central nervous system, with
highest levels in the hypothalamus, amygdala and nucleus accumbens. It
induces a variety of effects, including: analgesia, hypothermia and 
increased locomotor activity. It is also involved in regulation of dopamine
pathways. In the periphery, neurotensin is found in endocrine cells of the
small intestine, where it leads to secretion and smooth muscle contraction
[1,2]. The neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor can also be processed to
produce large 125-138 amino acid peptides with the neurotensin or neuromedin
N sequence at their C-terminus [2]. These large peptides appear to be less
potent than their smaller counterparts, but are also less sensitive to 
degradation and may represent endogenous, long-lasting activators in a
number of pathophysiological situations [2].

NEUROTENSIN is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the full alignment length - motif 1 encodes the putative
signal peptide; motifs 2-6 span the region of the precursor that encodes
large neuromedin N, with motif 6 containing neuromedin N itself; and motif 7
encodes neurotensin and the C-terminal tail. A single iteration on
SPTR40_18f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being
identified beyond the starting set.
