PHPHLIPASEA1
Phospholipases are moieties that allow the generation of secondary 
messengers for cellular signalling processes, such as diacylglycerols and
inositol triphosphate. They are classified according to the specific 
cleavage site of their target phospholipid [1]. Several types exist in 
different organisms, including prokaryotes [1].

Bacterial phospholipase A1 has attracted some attention as it is expressed 
in enterobacterial pathogens, such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella
typhimurium, and is one of the few enzymes situated in the outer membrane 
[2]. It is speculated that this protein, termed OMPLA (Outer Membrane 
PhosphoLipase A), may play roles in pathogenicity and maintenance of the
cell envelope integrity [2]. Its function is tightly regulated to prevent 
uncontrolled breakdown of the surrounding phospholipids in the plasma 
membrane [2]. The activity of OMPLA is also heavily dependent on calcium,
and the protein must dimerise before its main function (bacteriocin 
secretion) can take place [3].

PHPHLIPASEA1 is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
the bacterial phospholipase A protein family. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length (~320 amino
acids) - motif 4 contains the active site serine. Two iterations on 
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 8 sequences was identified. A single partial match was also
found, O25241, a Campylobacter pylori phospholipase A1 precursor
that matched motifs 6 and 8.
