TRPCHANNEL2
Transient receptor potential (Trp) and related proteins are thought to be
Ca2+ ion channel subunits that mediate capacitative Ca2+ entry in response 
to a range of external and internal cell stimuli. Such Ca2+ entry is thought 
to be an essential component of cellular responses to many hormones and
growth factors, and acts to replenish intracellular Ca2+ stores that have
been emptied through the action of inositol triphosphate (IP3) and other 
agents. In non-excitable cells, i.e. those that lack voltage-gated Ca2+
channels, such as hepatocytes, this mode of Ca2+ entry is thought to be an
important step in generating the oscillations of intracellular Ca2+
concentration that characterise their response to stimulatory agents [1].

Studies on the visual transduction system in Drosophila led to the molecular
cloning of Trp and the cDNA of a related protein, Trp-like, which show
similarity to voltage gated Ca2+ channels in the regions known as S3 through
S6, including the S5-S6 linker that forms the ion-selective channel pore [2].
This provided evidence that Trp and/or related proteins might form mammalian
capacitative Ca2+ entry channels. 

A number of Trp and Trp-like channel gene isoforms have now been cloned, 
including several mammalian homologues. The Trp family is thought to encode
at least 20 Ca2+-permeable channel proteins. Hydropathy analysis suggests 
that they share a common transmembrane (TM) topology. Each family member is 
predicted to possess 6 TM domains with intracellular N- and C-termini, which
is similar to the core structure of the pore-forming subunits of the voltage
-gated Na+ and Ca2+ channels. By analogy with these proteins, which have 
4 linked domains of 6 TM segments, it is likely that Trp channels are
homo- or heterotetramers of 4 single subunits [3].

The Trp family can be divided on the basis of sequence similarity into 3
subfamilies: short (S), long (L) and osm-like (O) Trp channels [4]. The
STrp subfamily includes Drosophila Trp and Trpl-like, and the mammalian
homologues TrpC1-7. Channels of the STrpC subfamily are activated following
receptor-mediated stimulation of different isoforms of phospholipase C (PLC)
[4].

TrpC2 was originally cloned from mouse tissue [5]. Rat and bovine isoforms
have also been identified, but the human form appears to be a pseudogene.
Expression studies have demonstrated that TrpC2 may be activated by receptor-
mediated stimulation of PLC, and also by intracellular Ca2+ store depletion
[5]. TrpC2 has been implicated in sperm-egg interactions, having recently
been shown to be essential for the activation of sustained Ca2+ influx into
sperm during fertilisation [6].

TRPCHANNEL2 is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
transient receptor potential channel 2. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those 
sections that characterise TrpC2 but distinguish it from other family
members - motif 1 encodes the second extracellular loop and part of TM
domain 4; and motifs 2-5 lie in the the C-terminal cytoplasmic region. A 
single iteration on SPTR40_18f was required to reach convergence, no further
sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
