NEUROTROPHN6
During the development of the vertebrate nervous system, many neurons
become redundant (because they have died, failed to connect to target
cells, etc.) and are eliminated. At the same time, developing neurons send
out axon outgrowths that contact their target cells [1]. Such cells control
their degree of innervation (the number of axon connections) by the
secretion of various specific neurotrophic factors that are essential for
neuron survival. One of these is nerve growth factor (NGF), which is
involved in the survival of some classes of embryonic neuron (e.g., peri-
pheral sympathetic neurons) [1]. NGF is mostly found outside the central
nervous system (CNS), but slight traces have been detected in adult CNS
tissues, although a physiological role for this is unknown [1]; it has also
been found in several snake venoms [2,3]. Proteins similar to NGF include
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophins 3 to 7, all of
which demonstrate neuron survival and outgrowth activities.

Neurotrophin-6 (NT-6) has been identified in two species of platty fish 
[4]. It has been shown to have trophic effects on embryonic sympathetic 
neurons, similar to those of NGF [4].

NEUROTROPHN6 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
neurotrophin-6. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 2
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions in the N-terminal
half of the alignment. A single iteration on SPTR55_38f was required to
reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the
starting set.
