NADHDHGNASE2
Mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 (ND2) is an integral inner
membrane protein. The protein is part of the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase
(complex I), which catalyses the transfer of 2 electrons from NADH to
ubiquinone in a reaction that is associated with proton translocation
across the membrane [1]:
              NADH + ubiquinone = NAD(+) + ubiquinol. 

Defects in the ND2 gene are one of the causes of Leber's hereditary optic
neuropathy, a maternally inherited disease resulting in acute bilateral 
blindness due to retinal degeneration, predominantly in young men [2,3].
Cardiac conduction defects and neurological defects have also been described,
resulting in optic nerve degeneration and cardiac dysrhythmia [4]. The
clinical manifestations of this disease are thought to be the product of an
overall decrease in mitochondrial energy production, rather than the result 
of a defect in a specific mitochondrial enzyme [3]. Further research has 
shown that a point mutation in ND2 is a potential risk factor for
Alzheimer's disease [5].  

NADHDHGNASE2 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for NADH-
ubiquinone oxidoreductase chain 2. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the central portion of the alignment. Three iterations on
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 289 sequences was identified. Several partial matches were found,
all of which are family members that fail to make significant matches with
one or more motifs.
