INTRLEUKN1R1
Interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta) are 
cytokines that participate in the regulation of immune responses, 
inflammatory reactions, and hematopoiesis [1]. Two types of IL-1 receptor, 
each with three extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains, limited
sequence similarity (28%) and different pharmacological characteristics
have been cloned from mouse and human cell lines: these have been termed 
type I and type II receptors [2]. The receptors both exist in transmembrane
(TM) and soluble forms: the soluble IL-1 receptor is thought to be post-
translationally derived from cleavage of the extracellular portion of the
membrane receptors [2].

Both IL-1 receptors appear to be well conserved in evolution, and map to the
same chromosomal location [3]. The receptors can both bind all three forms 
of IL-1 (IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta and IL-1RA) [3].

The crystal structure of the soluble extracellular part of type-I IL1R
complexed with IL1RA has been determined to 2.7A resolution [4]. The
receptor structure is characterised by three Ig-like domains, of which
domains 1 and 2 are tightly linked, while domain 3 is completely separate
and connected by a flexible linker [4].  

INTRLEUKN1R1 is a 12-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
interleukin-1 receptor type I precursor. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on
those sections that characterise the interleukin-1 receptor type I precursor
but distinguish it from other members of the interleukin-1 receptor family - 
motifs 1 and 2 lie N-terminal to Ig-like C2-type domain 1; motifs 5 and 6
span Ig-like C2-type domain 2; motifs 8 and 9 reside within Ig-like C2-type
domain 3; motif 10 spans the N-terminal portion of the putative TM domain;
and motifs 11 and 12 reside within the cytoplasmic domain. Two iterations on
SPTR39_15f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set 
comprising 4 sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also 
found: Q62692 is the soluble IL-1 receptor type I from rat, which matches 
only the N-terminal 7 motifs; Q90874 is the IL-1 receptor i precursor from
chicken, which matches motifs 3, 9 and 10; and Q13525 and Q62929 are 
interleukin-1 receptor-related proteins from human and rat respectively,
which match motifs 3 and 10.
