ENTSNTHTASED
Iron is essential for growth in both bacteria and mammals. Controlling the
amount of free iron in solution is often used as a tactic by hosts to limit
invasion of pathogenic microbes; binding iron tightly within protein
molecules can accomplish this. Such iron-protein complexes include haem in
blood, lactoferrin in tears/saliva and transferrin in blood plasma. Some
bacteria express surface receptors to capture eukaryotic iron-binding
compounds, while others have evolved siderophores to scavenge iron from
iron-binding host proteins [1].

The absence of free iron molecules in the surrounding environment triggers 
transcription of gene clusters that encode both siderophore-synthesis 
enzymes, and receptors that recognise iron-bound siderophores [2]. Classic
examples are the enterobactin/enterochelin clusters found in Escherichia
coli and Salmonella spp., although similar moieties in other pathogens have 
been identified. The enzymic machinery that produces vibrionectin in Vibrio
cholera is such a homologue [3].

EntD forms part of the enterobactin-synthetase enzyme complex. It is 
involved in the final stage of enterobactin biosynthesis, converting
2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and L-serine to enterobactin. Deletion
studies involving EntD- mutants have shown that it is essential for
virulence [4].

ENTSNTHTASED is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for  
enterobactin synthetase component D proteins. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from 
conserved regions spanning the full alignment length (~160 amino acids). 
Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at 
which point a true set comprising 10 sequences was identified.
