VIRFACTRMVIN
Virulent bacteria utilise a number of different pathogenic mechanisms to 
successfully invade a host [1]. There are roughly six subclasses of 
virulence factor; most are protein moieties aimed at evading the host
immune system or rendering it useless against the pathogen [1]. Mechanisms
can be conserved across a number of bacteria, like the flagella used by 
enterobacteria, or unique to a certain species, such as the Type IV/CAG 
system of Helicobacter pylori [1].

The sequencing of a number of pathogenic bacterial genomes has led to novel
virulence proteins being discovered that are yet to be biochemically 
characterised [2]. One example is the MviN family of proteins, first 
described in Salmonella [3], and conserved across a wide variety of 
pathogens in both animals and plants. Further work on these proteins of
as yet unknown function has revealed they are integral membrane molecules, 
and are part of an operon essential in at least one species [4].
                                                                               
VIRFACTRMVIN is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
MviN virulence factors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 10 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 spans the first
putative transmembrane (TM) domain; motif 3 includes putative TM domain 3;
motif 4 encodes TM domain 4; motif 5 includes the C-terminus of TM domain 6;
motif 6 spans TM domain 9; and motif 7 includes putative TM domain 11. Three
iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 28 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are MviN homologues, virulence factor-related
proteins and putative membrane proteins that fail to make significant
matches with one or more motifs.
