TOP6AFAMILY
In all organisms, type II DNA topoisomerases are essential for untangling
chromosomal DNA [1]. The structure of the DNA-binding core of the 
Methanococcus jannaschii DNA topoisomerase VI A subunit has been determined
to 2.0A resolution [1]. The overall structure of the subunit is unique,
demonstrating that archaeal type II enzymes are distinct from other type II
topoisomerases [1]. Nevertheless, the core structure contains a pair of 
domains that are also found in type IA and classic type II topoisomerases
[1]. Such regions may form the basis of a DNA cleavage mechanism shared
among these enzymes [1]. 

The core A subunit is a dimer, with a deep groove spanning both protomers
[1]. The dimer architecture is such that DNA is thought to bind in the 
groove, across the A subunit interface, and the monomers are thought to
separate during DNA transport [1]. The A subunit of topoisomerase VI is 
similar to the meiotic recombination factor, Spo11.

Spo11 is a meiosis-specific protein in yeast that covalently binds to DNA
double-strand breaks (DSBs) during the early stages of meiosis [2]. These
DSBs initiate homologous recombination, which is required for chromosomal 
segregation and generation of genetic diversity during meiosis [2]. Mouse
and human homologues of Spo11 have been cloned and characterised [2]. The 
proteins are 82% identical and share ~25% identity with other family 
members. Mouse Spo11 has been localised to chromosome 2H4, and human SPO11
to chromosome 20q13.2-q13.3, a region amplified in some breast and ovarian 
tumours [2]. 

Similarity between SPO11 and archaebacterial TOP6A proteins points to 
evolutionary specialisation of a DNA-cleavage function for meiotic
recombination [3]. 

TOP6AFAMILY is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
DNA topoisomerase VI subunit A family. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 12 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short
conserved regions spanning the central portion of the alignment - motif 1
includes an active site tyrosine residue involved in DNA cleavage; and 
motifs 4 and 6 each include conserved metal-binding aspartate residues.
Two iterations on SPTR39_15f were required to reach convergence, at which
point a true set comprising 16 sequences was identified. Several partial 
matches were also found, all of which are family members that fail to make
significant matches with one or more motifs.
