TYPE1KERATIN
Keratins are a well known group of intermediate filament proteins. Like 
actin filaments, keratins are flexible but provide a firm cell skeleton.
Unlike actin, however, no known keratins are associated with motor 
functions [1]. Approximately 10 keratins form the basis of hair or claw,
with a further 20 found in internal body cavity epithelia. They are also
found at desmosomes and hemi-desmosomes (cell/cell and cell/matrix contacts 
respectively) [2].

Type I keratins are a group of acidic intermediate filament proteins that
exist as chains of heterodimers with basic type II keratins [3]. Each type
I keratin consists of head-, rod- and tail-like structures, the rod being
constructed from three linked coils: 1A, 1B and 2. Type I proteins are 
associated with a number of inherited developmental disorders, such as 
baldness, beading of hair, and skin blistering.

TYPE1KERATIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for type
I keratins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 34
sequences: the motifs were drawn from the central and C-terminal portions
of the alignment - motifs 1 and 2 fall within coil 1B; motif 3 resides
within linker 12; and motifs 4 and 5 are located within coil 2 (the region 
encoded by PROSITE pattern IF (PS00226) lies between motif 5 and the 
C-terminus, within coil 2). Three iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 53 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which are 
intermediate filament proteins that mostly match motifs 2 and 5: Q90809 and 
Q90976 are chicken CP49 proteins; Q13515 is a highly diverent human protein;
Q28177 is a bovine phakinin; and O96754 is from Amphioxus.
