TGFBETA4
Abnormal endometrial bleeding is a common manifestation of gynaecological
diseases. A human gene, termed endometrial bleeding associated factor (ebaf),
which is expressed strongly in endometrium, has been shown to be associated
with abnormal endometrial bleeding [1]. The predicted protein product of 
ebaf shares similarity with members of TGF-beta superfamily. Thus ebaf is a
novel member of the TGF-beta superfamily and an endometrial tissue factor
whose expression is associated with normal menstrual and abnormal 
endometrial bleeding [1]. 

Examples of lateral asymmetry are often found in vertebrates (e.g., the 
heart being on the left side), but the molecular mechanisms governing 
establishment of left-right (L-R) handedness are unknown [2]. It is now 
thought that the gene lefty, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta
family, may encode a morphogen for L-R determination [2]. Lefty protein,
which contains the cysteine-knot motif characteristic of this superfamily,
is expressed in the left half of gastrulating mouse embryos. This asymmetric
expression is transient and occurs just before the first sign of lateral
asymmetry appears [2]. Thus lefty may be involved in establishing L-R 
asymmetry in the organ systems of mammals [2]. 

TGFBETA4 is a 14-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
transforming growth factor beta 4 precursor proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on
those sections that characterise TGF-beta 4 proteins but distinguish them
from the rest of the TGF-beta superfamily. Two iterations on SPTR39_14f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 4 
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found (Q9PVN4, 
Q9W6I7, Q9PW55, Q9W6I6), all antivin or Lefty proteins that match 2-4 motifs.
