PARAOXONASE
The serum paraoxonases/arylesterases are enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis
of the toxic metabolites of a variety of organophosphorus insecticides. The
enzymes hydrolyse a broad spectrum of organophosphate substrates, including 
paraoxon and a number of aromatic carboxylic acid esters (e.g., phenly
acetate), and hence confer resistance to organophosphate toxicity [1]. 

Mammals have 3 distinct paraoxonase types, termed PON1-3 [1]. In mice and
humans, the PON genes are found on the same chromosome in close proximity. 
PON activity has been found in variety of tissues, with highest levels in 
liver and serum [2] - the source of serum PON is thought to be the liver 
[3]. Unlike mammals, fish and avian species lack paraoxonase activity [4]. 
The absence of this activity in chicken and turkey indicates that PON2 does 
not hydrolyse paraoxon [1]. 

Human and rabbit PONs appear to have two distinct Ca2+ binding sites, one
required for stability and one required for catalytic activity. The Ca2+
dependency of PONs suggests a mechanism of hydrolysis where Ca2+ acts as the
electrophilic catalyst, like that proposed for phospholipase A2 [5]. The
paraoxonase enzymes, PON1 and PON3, are high density lipoprotein (HDL)-
associated proteins capable of preventing oxidative modification of low
density lipoproteins (LPL) [6]. Although PON2 has oxidative properties, the
enzyme does not associate with HDL [7].

Within a given species, PON1, PON2 and PON3 share ~60% amino acid sequence 
identity, whereas between mammalian species particular PONs (1,2 or 3) share
79-90% identity at the amino acid level. Human PON1 and PON3 share numerous 
conserved phosphorylation and N-glycosylation sites; however, it is not 
known whether the PON proteins are modified at these sites, or whether 
modification at these sites is required for activity in vivo [6].

PARAOXONASE is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
paraoxonase family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full 
alignment length. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set containing 15 sequences was 
identified. Two partial matches were also found, both truncated murine PON-
like proteins that matched two or three motifs.
