CLAUDIN4
Tight junctions (TJs) are specialised membrane domains found at the most 
apical region of polarised epithelial and endothelial cells. They create a 
primary barrier, preventing paracellular transport of solutes and 
restricting lateral diffusion of membrane lipids and proteins. They also 
act as diffusion barriers within plasma membranes, creating and maintaining
apical and basolateral membrane domains.

Recently, the molecular architecture of tight junctions has begun to be
elucidated. One group of proteins thought to be major components of TJs 
is the claudin family [1]. Immunofluorescence studies have shown that 
claudins are targeted to and incorporated into tight junctions [2]. 
Furthermore, when claudins are introduced into cells that lack tight 
junctions, networks of strands and grooves form at cell-cell contact sites 
that closely resemble native TJs [3].

The claudin protein family is encoded by at least 17 human genes, with many
homologues cloned from other species. Tissue distribution patterns for the 
claudin family members are distinct. Claudin-1 and -2, for example, are 
expressed at high levels in the liver and kidney, whereas claudin-3 mRNA is
detected mainly in the lung and liver [2,4]. This suggests that multiple 
claudin family members may be involved in tight junction strand formation 
in a tissue-dependent manner.

Hydropathy analysis suggests that all claudins share a common transmembrane
(TM) topology. Each family member is predicted to possess 4 TM domains with
intracellular N- and C-termini. Although their C-terminal cytoplasmic domain
sequences vary, most claudin family members share a common motif of -Y-V in
this region. This has been postulated as a possible binding motif for PDZ
domains of other tight junction-associated membrane proteins, such as ZO-1.

Claudin-4 was originally termed Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin 
receptor (CPE-R). It was re-classified as claudin-4 on the basis of cDNA 
sequence similarity with claudins-1 and -2, and antibody studies that
showed it to be expressed at tight junctions [4].

CLAUDIN4 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for claudin-4
proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions within the 
C-terminal two thirds of the alignment, focusing on those sections that 
characterise claudin-4 but distinguish it from other family members - motif
1 lies in the second TM domain; motif 2 resides within the second 
extracellular loop; and motif 3 lies in the cytoplasmic C-terminal region.
A single iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach convergence, no 
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
