TONBPROTEIN
Iron is essential for growth in both bacteria and mammals. Controlling the
amount of free iron in solution is often used as a tactic by hosts to limit
invasion of pathogenic microbes; binding iron tightly within protein
molecules can accomplish this. Such iron-protein complexes include haem in
blood, lactoferrin in tears/saliva and transferrin in blood plasma. Some
bacteria express surface receptors to capture eukaryotic iron-binding
compounds, while others have evolved siderophores to scavenge iron from
iron-binding host proteins [1].

The absence of free iron molecules in the surrounding environment triggers 
transcription of gene clusters that encode both siderophore-synthesis 
enzymes, and receptors that recognise iron-bound siderophores [2]. An 
example of the latter is Escherichia coli fepA, which resides in the outer 
envelope and captures iron-bound enterobactin [3]. 

To complete transport of bound iron across the inner membrane, a second 
receptor complex is needed. The major component of this is tonB, a 27kDa
protein that facilitates energy transfer from the proton motive force to
outer receptors [4]. B-12 and colicin receptors also make use of the tonB
system to drive active transport at the outer membrane. 

TONBBPROTEIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
Gram-negative bacterial tonB proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 8 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 includes the
characteristic KP repeat region. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 9 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which are tonB
proteins that fail to match one or more motifs. 
