UBIQUITINACT
Ubiquitin (Ub) activation by the Ub-activating (E1) enzyme is the initial
and essential step common to all the processes that involve post-
translational conjugation of Ub to itself or other proteins. The E1 enzyme
activates Ub in an ATP-dependent reaction by first adenylating the C-
terminal Gly-76 of Ub and subsequently linking this residue to the side-
chain of a cysteine in the same E1 molecule, resulting in an E1-Ub thioester
and free AMP [1]. Genes encoding the 110-120kDa E1 protein have been cloned
from a variety of organisms, including yeast, plants and mammals.

E1 is localised in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm [2] and exists as two
isoforms, E1a and E1b [3,4]. E1a exists as one non-phosphorylated form
and four phosphorylated forms, and is localised exclusively to the
nucleus, whereas E1b exists as one non-phosphorylated form and two minor
phosphorylated forms and is localised predominantly in the cytoplasm. The
first 11 amino acids of E1 are essential for phosphorylation and exclusive
nuclear localisation. Within this 11 residue region are four serine residues
and a putative nuclear localisation, PLSKKRR. Removal of the four serine
residues results in a 60% drop in phosphorylation levels.

UBIQUITINACT is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
ubiquitin-activating enzyme E1. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 15 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the N-terminal half of the alignment. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 24
sequences was identified.
