ISCHRISMTASE
Iron is essential for growth in both bacteria and mammals. Controlling the
amount of free iron in solution is often used as a tactic by hosts to limit
invasion of pathogenic microbes; binding iron tightly within protein
molecules can accomplish this. Such iron-protein complexes include haem in
blood, lactoferrin in tears/saliva and transferrin in blood plasma. Some
bacteria express surface receptors to capture eukaryotic iron-binding
compounds, while others have evolved siderophores to scavenge iron from
iron-binding host proteins [1].

The absence of free iron molecules in the surrounding environment triggers 
transcription of gene clusters that encode both siderophore-synthesis 
enzymes, and receptors that recognise iron-bound siderophores [2]. Classic
examples are the enterobactin/enterochelin clusters found in Escherichia
coli and Salmonella spp., although similar moieties in other pathogens have 
been identified. The enzymic machinery that produces vibrionectin in Vibrio
cholera is such a homologue [3].

EntB, an isochorismate enzyme, is involved in the second stage of 
enterobactin biosynthesis. It has a molecular weight of 35kDa, and is 
believed to possess bifunctional activity. Deletion studies involving EntB- 
mutants have shown that it is essential for virulence [4].

ISCHRISMTASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for  
isochorismatases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
full alignment length (~190 amino acids). Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 7
sequences was identified. 
