TPISMRASE6A
In all organisms, type II DNA topoisomerases are essential for untangling
chromosomal DNA [1]. The structure of the DNA-binding core of the 
Methanococcus jannaschii DNA topoisomerase VI A subunit has been determined
to 2.0A resolution [1]. The overall structure of the subunit is unique,
demonstrating that archaeal type II enzymes are distinct from other type II
topoisomerases [1]. Nevertheless, the core structure contains a pair of 
domains that are also found in type IA and classic type II topoisomerases
[1]. Such regions may form the basis of a DNA cleavage mechanism shared
among these enzymes [1]. 

The core A subunit is a dimer, with a deep groove spanning both protomers
[1]. The dimer architecture is such that DNA is thought to bind in the 
groove, across the A subunit interface, and the monomers are thought to
separate during DNA transport [1]. The A subunit of topoisomerase VI is 
similar to the meiotic recombination factor, Spo11.

TPISMRASE6A is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
DNA topoisomerase VI subunit A. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment 
of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved regions spanning
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that
characterise the TOP6A topoisomerases but distinguish them from the closely
related SPO11 proteins. Three iterations on SPTR39_15f were required to
reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found: Q9LZ03 is a meiosis 
specific-like protein from Arabidopsis thaliana that fails to make a 
significant match with motif 2; and Q9LK56 and Q9M4A2 are DNA topoisomerase
VIA subunits from Arabidopsis thaliana that match motifs 4 and 5.
