BINARYTOXINA
A large group of bacterial exotoxins are referred to as "A/B toxins", 
essentially because they are formed from two subunits [1]. The "A" subunit
possesses enzyme activity, and is transferred to the host cell following
a conformational change in the membrane-bound transport "B" subunit [1].

Clostridial species are one of the major causes of food poisoning/gastro-
intestinal illnesses. They are Gram-positive, spore-forming rods that occur
naturally in the soil [1]. Included in the family are: C.botulinum, which
produces one of the most potent toxins in existence; C.tetani, causative
agent of tetanus; and C.perfringens, commonly found in wound infections and
diarrhoea cases. 

Among the toxins produced by certain Clostridium spp. are the binary 
exotoxins. These proteins consist of two independent polypeptides, which
correspond to the A/B subunit moieties. The enzyme component (A) enters 
the cell through endosomes produced by the oligomeric binding/translocation
protein (B), and prevents actin polymerisation through ADP-ribosylation of 
monomeric G-actin [1-3].

Members of the "A" binary toxin family include C.perfringens iota toxin Ia
[1], C.botulinum C2 toxin CI [2], and C.difficile ADP-ribosyltransferase 
[3]. Other homologous proteins have been found in C.spiroforme [2,3].

BINARYTOXINA is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
Clostridium binary toxin A proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the full alignment length (~450 amino acids). Two 
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point 
a true set comprising 5 sequences was identified. 
