EGGSHELL
The complete sequence for a major eggshell protein gene from the human
parasite Schistosome mansoni has been determined [1]. The deduced amino 
acid sequence demonstrates an abundance of glycine and tyrosine residues
evenly distributed throughout the chain, an asymmetrical distribution of
charged residues, and five well-conserved tandem repeats of 16-18 residues
in the N-terminal region [1]. Acidic residues are confined to the N-terminal
portion, and basic residues are largely found towards the C-terminus.

A model structure composed of short anti-parallel beta-strands has been
proposed, in which glycines and residues with small side chains lie within
the strands, and tyrosines and cysteines are arranged at the bends, where 
they could be involved in cross-linking [1]. Four strands form one of the 
tandem repeats, which are predicted to form a stack of five closely-packed
beta-sheets, each with three strands and linked by the more variable fourth
strand [1]. The C-terminal region could form a similar, but less compact,
structure. Birefringence studies have shown an ordered structure of the
schistosome eggshell [2], which could be formed by packing of the poly-
peptides such that the N-terminal domain contributes counter ions or cross-
links to the C-terminal domain of adjacent molecules. 

EGGSHELL is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for eggshell
proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified.
