CARBMTKINASE
The arginine dihydrolase (AD) pathway is found in many prokaryotes and some
primitive eukaryotes, an example of the latter being Giardia [1}. The three- 
enzyme anaerobic pathway breaks down L-arginine to form 1 mol of ATP, carbon 
dioxide and ammonia. In simpler bacteria, the first enzyme, arginine 
deiminase, can account for up to 10% of total cell protein [1].

Carbamate kinase is involved in the last step of the AD pathway, converting
carbamoyl phosphate and ADP into ammonia, carbon dioxide and ATP [2]. The
second step of the pathway involves the degradation of L-citrulline to 
carbamoyl phosphate and L-ornithine, using ornithine carbamoyltransferase [3].

The crystal structure of Enterococcus (Streptococcus) faecium carbamate
kinase has been determined to 2.8A resolution [4]. The enzyme exists as a
homodimer of two 33kDa subunits. The hallmark of the dimer is a 16-stranded
beta-sheet, surrounded by alpha-helices [4]. Each subunit contains an active
site within a large crevice.

CARBMTKINASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
bacterial carbamate kinases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length (~220 amino acids) - motif 1 spans beta-
strand 3 and the N-terminus of alpha-helix 3 of the E.faecium carbamate
kinase structure; motif 2 encodes the N-terminus of helix 4; motif 3 spans
the C-terminus of strand 4, strand 5 and helix 5; motif 4 spans the 
C-terminus of strand 8, strand 9 and the N-terminus of helix 7; motif 5 
spans strands 10 and 11, and helix 8; motif 6 encodes helix 9; and motif
7 encodes helix 11. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 17 sequences was
identified. A single partial match was also found, ARGB_BACST, a Bacillus
stearothermophilus acetylglutamate kinase that matched motifs 1 and 7.  
