NAHCO3TRSPRT
Na+/HCO3- co-transport proteins are involved in cellular HCO3- absorption
and secretion, and also with intracellular pH regulation. They mediate the
coupled movement of Na+ and HCO3- across plasma membranes in most of the
cell types so far investigated. A single HCO3- is transported together with
one to three Na+; this transport mode is therefore often electrogenic. In
the kidney, an electrogenic Na+/HCO3- co-transporter is the principal HCO3-
transporter of the renal proximal tubule, and is responsible for
reabsorption of more than 85% of the filtered load of HCO3- [1]. Until
recently, the molecular nature of these Na+/HCO3- co-transporters had
remained undiscovered, as initial attempts to clone them based on presumed
homology to Cl-/HCO3- (anion) exchangers had proved unsuccessful. Instead,
an expression cloning strategy was successfully utilised to identify the
Na+/HCO3- co-transporter from salamander kidney, an organ previously found
to possess electrogenic Na+/HCO3- co-transport activity [2]. The cloned co-
transporter consists of 1035 amino acids, and shows ~25-30% sequence
identity to anion exchanger proteins, which is distributed along the entire
sequence length. They also share very similar hydropathy plots, suggesting
they have ~10 transmembrane (TM) domains.

At least 3 mammalian Na+/HCO3- co-transporters have since been cloned, with
similar primary sequence lengths and putative membrance topologies. One of
these has been found to be a kidney-specific isoform [3], which is near-
identical (except for a varying N-terminal region) to a more widely-
distributed co-transporter cloned from pancreatic tissue [4].

NAHCO3TRSPRT is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
Na+/HCO3- co-transporters. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the N-terminal half of the alignment; motifs 1-5 lie in the
putative cytoplasmic N-terminus; motif 6 spans the end of the second
putative TM domain, through the start of the third TM domain; and motif
7 lies at the end of the fourth TM domain. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising
10 sequences was identified.
