P2YPURNOCPTR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

In addition to their roles in energy metabolism, extracellular nucleotides 
(such as ATP) can act as signalling molecules to induce a wide variety of 
biological effects. They are released into the extracellular fluid as a 
result of cell lysis, exocytosis of nucleotide-containing granules or by 
efflux through membrane transport proteins, and can function as autocrine 
and paracrine mediators [6,7]. Nucleotides play a role in synaptic 
transmission and in platelet-vessel wall interactions. In neurons of the 
central and peripheral nervous system, ATP is colocalised and cosecreted 
with more traditional neurotransmitters, such as catecholamines and 
acetylcholine, and has excitatory effects [6,7]. ATP is also found in high 
concentrations in the dense granules of platelets, together with ADP. These 
granules also contain lower levels of other nucleotides, such as adenine 
dinucleotides, GTP and UTP [7]. In addition, ADP is released from the 
vascular endothelium following injury and causes activation of platelets [6].

Receptors for adenine nucleotides are collectively termed P2 purinoceptors. 
They can be further subdivided into two structural classes: P2X receptors 
are ligand-gated ion channels, while P2Y receptors are G protein-coupled 
receptors. P2Y receptors have also been identified that are selective for 
uridine (rather than adenine) nucleotides [7]. 

P2YPURNOCPTR is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
P2Y purinoceptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
18 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections within either
loop or TM regions, focusing on those areas of the alignment that
characterise the P2Y receptors but distinguish them from the rest of the 
rhodopsin-like superfamily - motif 1 encodes part of TM domain 2, leading 
into the first external loop; motif 2 lies in the first external loop, 
leading into TM domain 3; motif 3 resides at the C-terminus of TM domain 3; 
motif 4 spans the C-terminus of TM domain 5, leading into the third 
cytoplasmic loop; and motif 5 resides in the C-terminal portion of TM domain
6. Two iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 28 sequences was identified. Several 
partial matches were also found, all of which are closely related members
of the rhodopsin-like superfamily.
