PARKIN
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder with complex
clinical features and a poorly understood aetiology. PD is accompanied by a
progressive loss of dopamine-containing neurons in the substantia nigra,
with patients suffering from rigidity, slowness of movement, tremour and
disturbances of balance. Autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP)
is a rare form of familial PD mapped to chromosome 6 and linked strongly to
a pair of markers. One of these markers has been cloned, yielding a sequence
that encodes a protein, 465 amino acids long [1]. The protein sequence,
named parkin, shows moderate similarity with ubiquitin at the N-terminus and
a ring-finger domain at the C-terminus.

In normal individuals, parkin binds to the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating human
enzyme 8 (UbcH8) through the C-terminal ring-finger domain. In the presence
of UbcH8, parkin has ubiquitin-protein ligase activity and even catalyses 
its own ubiquitination. Furthermore, parkin appears to target the synaptic
vesicle-associated protein CDCrel-1 for ubiquitination and thus promotes its
degradation. The mutated forms of parkin implicated in AR-JP appear to be
defective in terms of UbcH8 binding, E3 ubiquitin protein-ligase activity,
self-ubiquitination, and CDCrel-1 binding and ubiquitination [2].

PARKIN is a 9-element fingerprint that provides a signature for parkin and
parkin-like proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning 
virtually the full alignment length, but largely avoiding the N- and 
C-terminal ubiquitin-like and ring-finger domains respectively. A single
iteration on SPTR39_15f was required to reach convergence, no further
sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
