BUTYPHLNCDUF
Several proteins that contain RING fingers also contain a well-conserved
40-residue cysteine-rich domain termed a B-box zinc finger. Often, one or 
two copies of the B-box are associated with a coiled coil domain in addition
to the ring finger, forming a tripartite motif. The tripartite motif is 
found in transcription factors, ribonucleoproteins and proto-oncoproteins,
but no function has yet been ascribed to the domain [1]. 

The solution structure of the B-box motif has been determined by NMR [2]. 
The protein is a monomer, with 2 beta-strands, 2 helical turns and 3
extended loop regions packed in a novel topology [2]. Of 7 potential zinc
ligands, only 4 are used, binding a single zinc atom in a C2-H2 tetrahedral 
arrangement [2]. The B-box structure differs in tertiary fold from all
other known zinc-binding motifs.

A group of proteins that contain the B-box motif also host a well conserved
domain of unknown function (DUF). Proteins that include this domain are,
e.g.: butyrophilin, the RET finger protein, the 52kDa Ro protein and the
Xenopus nuclear factor protein. The C-terminal portion of this region has
been termed the SPRY domain (after SPla and the RYanodine Receptor) [1].

BUTYPHLNCDUF is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
butyrophilin C-terminal domain and related proteins. The fingerprint was
derived from an initial alignment of 7 proteins: the motifs were drawn from
short conserved regions spanning the C-terminal portion of the alignment -
motifs 1-3 lie N-terminal to the SPRY domain, and motifs 4-6 reside within
it. Five iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 26 sequences was identified. Several
partial matches were also found, all of which are related DNA-binding
proteins that fail to match one or more motifs.
