ADRENERGICR
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute a vast protein family that 
encompasses a wide range of functions (including various autocrine, para-
crine and endocrine processes). They show considerable diversity at the 
sequence level, on the basis of which they can be separated into distinct 
groups. We use the term clan to describe the GPCRs, as they embrace a group
of families for which there are indications of evolutionary relationship, 
but between which there is no statistically significant similarity in 
sequence [1,2]. The currently known clan members include the rhodopsin-like 
GPCRs, the secretin-like GPCRs, the cAMP receptors, the fungal mating
pheromone receptors, and the metabotropic glutamate receptor family.

The rhodopsin-like GPCRs themselves represent a widespread protein family 
that includes hormone, neurotransmitter and light receptors, all of
which transduce extracellular signals through interaction with guanine
nucleotide-binding (G) proteins. Although their activating ligands vary 
widely in structure and character, the amino acid sequences of the 
receptors are very similar and are believed to adopt a common structural 
framework comprising 7 transmembrane (TM) helices [3-5]. 

In the periphery, the adrenergic system plays an important role in
regulating the cardiovascular system [6]. Increased sympathetic discharge
to the heart increases the rate and force of contraction mediated through 
beta-1 receptors. Circulating adrenaline also acts on cardiac tissue, and, 
in addition, acts both on alpha-1 adrenoceptors in arterial smooth muscle, 
stimulating vasoconstriction, and on beta-2 adrenoceptors in vascular beds 
of skeletal muscle, stimulating vasodilation [6]. In the CNS, noradrenaline 
is thought to be involved in the regulation of mood, and various psycho-
active drugs alter noradrenergic function. Numerous drugs exert their 
actions via adrenoceptors: e.g., beta-2 selective agonists such as 
salbutamol are used in the acute treatment of asthma, while alpha agonists 
prolong the action of local anaesthetics, and act as nasal decongestants [6].

Adrenoceptors can be divided into three main classes based on sequence
similarity, receptor pharmacology and signalling mechanisms. Further 
subdivisions exist within each class [6]. A large number of agonists and 
antagonists distinguish between the different classes of adrenoceptor; by
contrast, relatively small differences in agonist and antagonist affinities
are demonstrated, especially within the alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor
subtypes [6]. 

ADRENERGICR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
adrenergic receptors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 29 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved sections spanning
virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that 
characterise the adrenoceptors but distinguish them from the rest of the
rhodopsin-like superfamily - motif 1 lies in the first external loop; motif 
2 resides in the second cytoplasmic loop; motif 3 lies in the C-terminal
portion of TM domain 5, leading into the the third cytoplasmic loop; and 
motif 4 resides at the C-terminus. Four iterations on SPTR37_9f were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 59 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, largely serotonin and 
dopamine receptors that match 2 motifs.
