EP450ICYP1A
P450 enzymes constitute a superfamily of haem-thiolate proteins [1], widely
distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The enzymes are involved
in metabolism of a plethora of both exogenous and endogenous compounds [2].
Usually, they act as terminal oxidases in multi-component electron transfer
chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems.

Current P450 nomenclature, based on divergent evolution of the P450
superfamily, was proposed and developed by Nebert et al. [3]. On the basis
of sequence similarity, all P450s can be categorised into 2 main classes,
the so-called B- and E-classes: P450 proteins of prokaryotic 3-component
systems and fungal P450nor (CYP55) belong to the B-class; all other known
P450s from distinct systems are of the E-class [4]. E-class P450s may be
further divided into 5 subclasses (groups) according to protein sequence
similarities. The data suggest that divergence of the P450 superfamily 
into B- and E-classes, and further divergence into stable P450 groups 
within the E-class, must be very ancient and had occured before the 
appearance of eukaryotes. 

Due to the rapid increase in numbers of P450s, Nelson introduced the concept
of a higher order classification of P450 families into clans [6,7] based on
sequence similarity. This is similar to the previous grouping into B- and
E-classes; both classifications are still used. According to Nelson's
system, clan 2 contains the CYP1 plus CYP2, 17, 18, 21 and 71 families, and
corresponds to the E-class group I proteins [7]. Members of the first 4
families are of vertebrate origin, while those from CYP71 derive from plants.

CYP1 enzymes mainly metabolise exogenous substrates and are found in 
mammalia (1A, 1B), bony fishes (1A), sharks, skates, rays (1A) and birds
(1A). CYP1A contains five proteins, namely, CYP1A1, 1A2, 1A3, 1A4 and 1A5.
CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 have been found in all classes of the animal kingdom [3];
the proteins are highly similar between mammalian species (human and rat
CYP1A1 are 80% identical) and CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 are themselves closely
related. CYP1 family members are closely associated with the metabolic
activation of pro-carcinogens and mutagens [8]. The mechanisms of activation
have been extensively studied, and are known to involve 'bay-region' 
epoxidation in conformationally hindered positions, often followed by a 
second epoxidation step on the subsequent 'bay-region' diol to give rise to
electrophilic diol epoxides capable of interacting covalently with DNA. This
causes mutagenesis and utimately, carcinogenesis. Clearly, the CYP1 family
has a role in toxic activation, but it may also possess important endogenous
functions, in addition to mediating several detoxifying pathways.

EP450ICYP1A is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
CYP1A P450 family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of
32 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
N-terminal half of the alignment, focusing on those sections that
characterise the CYP1A proteins but distinguish them from the rest of the
P450 superfamily - using the model of Szklarz et al. [5], motif 1 spans the
N-terminal membrane anchor domain; motif 2 encodes the B' helix, and 
represents the first of the substrate recognition sites (SRS) 1; motif 3
lies between the F and G helices; motif 4 encodes the well-conserved H 
helix; and motif 5 spans the C-terminus of helix I. Two iterations on
SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 43 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found:
Q28716 and Q9YI88, both of which are close family members that fail to make
significant matches with one of the motifs.
