CERVTRCPTASE
Reverse transcriptases occur in a variety of mobile elements, including
retrotransposons, retroviruses, group II introns, bacterial msDNAs, 
hepadnaviruses and caulimoviruses [1]. The enzyme catalyses RNA-template-
directed extension of the 3'-end of DNA strands one deoxynucleotide at a 
time; it cannot initiate a chain de novo, but requires an RNA or DNA primer,
or DNA template.

The structure of the unliganded reverse transcriptase (RT) from the human
immunodeficiency virus type 1 has been solved to 3.2A resolution [2]. The
enzyme is a heterodimer, with domains termed "fingers," "thumb," "palm," 
and "connection" in both subunits, and a ribonuclease H domain in the
larger subunit only [2]. Ligand binding has been shown to induce changes
in the orientation of the thumb. A C-terminal domain common to a group
of sequences from the C.elegans sequencing project is revealed by sequence
analysis to share a high level of similarity with the RT small subunit.

CERVTRCPTASE is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
C.elegans reverse-transcriptase-like proteins. The fingerprint was derived 
from an initial alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment. Three 
iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 16 sequences was identified. Numerous partial matches
were also found, almost all of which are related C.elegans reverse-
transcriptase-like proteins that fail to match one or more motifs; the
exception, Q9YGS2, is a reverse transcriptase-like protein from Fugu rubripes.
