PHOSPHBKNASE
Phosphorylase b kinase (EC 2.7.1.38) belongs to a family of proteins 
involved in glycogen biosynthesis [1]. The protein has a subunit composition
of (alpha, beta, gamma, delta)4, where the alpha and beta subunits are 
regulatory, delta is calmodulin, and the gamma subunit is catalytic. The 
enzyme is believed to have a dual role: the first is connected with glycogen
degradation via phosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase; the second 
controls glycogen biosynthesis on the sarcoplasmic reticular membrane more
directly by phosphorylation, and thus inhibition, of glycogen synthase [2].

The gamma catalytic chain contains three domains; one protein kinase and two
calmodulin-binding domains. Calcium and magnesium ions, together with cyclic
AMP, positively affect the efficiency of the enzyme, which is believed to 
be associated with its auto-kinase activity [1,3-5].

The full extent of the effects of deficiencies in this enzyme in humans is 
unknown; but case studies have been documented [6-8] that detail symptoms as
mild as 'exercise intolerance' [6], to infant mortality arising from floppy
infant syndrome [7].

PHOSPHBKNASE is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
phosphorylase kinase family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the full alignment length - in the kinase domain, motif 1 spans 
the C-terminus of helix 2 and the N-terminus of helix 3; motif 2 spans 
helices 12 and 13; and the remaining motifs reside in the calmodulin-binding
domains. Two iterations on OWL30.2 were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 7 sequences.
