NRFEBIOGNSIS
Within mitochondria and bacteria, a family of related proteins is involved
in the assembly of periplasmic c-type cytochromes: these include CycK [1],
CcmF [2,3], NrfE [4] and CcbS [5]. These proteins may play a role in 
guidance of apocytochromes and haem groups for their covalent linkage 
by the cytochrome-c-haem lyase. Members of the family are probably integral
membrane proteins, with up to 16 predicted transmembrane (TM) helices. 

A seven-gene operon, designated nrf, has been shown to be essential for 
formate-dependent nitrite reduction to ammonia by enteric bacteria [4].
Expression of lac fused to nrfA, nrfE or nrfG is regulated by oxygen
repression, FNR-dependent anaerobic induction, nitrite induction and
nitrate repression during anaerobic growth [4]. NrfE is a hydrophobic, 
integral membrane protein that shares a high degree of similarity with the
CdI1 protein of Rhodobacter capsulatus implicated in the assembly of
periplasmic c-type cytochromes [4]. Hydropathy analysis reveals up to 16
putative TM domains. 

NRFEBIOGNSIS is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
cytochrome c-type biogenesis protein NrfE. The fingerprint was derived from
an initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those 
sections that characterise the NrfE proteins but distinguish them from the
rest of the cytochrome c-type biogenesis protein family - motif 1 includes
putative TM domain 9; motif 2 encodes the N-terminal portion of TM domain
10; motif 3 lies immediately C-terminal to TM domain 10; motif 4 lies 
C-terminal to TM domain 14; and motif 5 encodes the C-terminal portion of
TM domain 16. A single iteration on SPTR37_10f was required to reach 
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
