LBHPROTEIN
In vertbrate embryogenesis, it has been shown that morphologically distinct
organs, such as the limbs and the heart, can rely on the same proteins for
patterning. Such organ patterning is critically dependent on a spatially
differential expression of transcription factors at different stages of
development - hence, recent studies have focused on identifying genes
that are expressed differentially in developing organs. A novel gene has
been identified using Engrailed-1 (En1) (a transcription factor implicated
in limb development) as the bait, in yeast two-hybrid co-expression studies.

The novel gene has an expression pattern consistent with the common 
patterning mechanisms in the limb and heart, and was hence termed Limb-bud-
and-heart (Lbh) gene. As the limb buds appear, Lbh expression is localised 
to the distal ventral limb ectoderm and the apical ectodermal ridge, in 
concert with En1 and fibroblast growth factor 8 expression. In heart 
development, Lbh is expressed at the same time as transcription factors 
Nkx2.5 and dHand in the bilateral heart primordia and the anterior 
promyocardium. However, Lbh expression is restricted to the ventricular 
myocardium after heart tube fusion and looping [1].

LBHPROTEIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for Limb-
bud-and-heart proteins. The fingerprint was derived form an initial 
alignment of 3 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions in 
the central portion of the alignment. A single iteration on SPTR40_20f was 
required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond 
the starting set.
