TNECROSISFCT
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) (or cachectin) is a monocyte-derived cytotoxin
that has been implicated in tumour regression, septic shock and cachexia
[1,2]. The protein is synthesised as a prohormone with an unusually long 
and atypical signal sequence, which is absent from the mature secreted
cytokine [3]. A short hydrophobic stretch of amino acids serves to anchor 
the prohormone in lipid bilayers [4]. Both the mature protein and a 
partially-processed form of the hormone are secreted after cleavage of the
propeptide [4]. 

The structure of TNF has been determined to 2.9A using X-ray crystallography
[5]. The protein is trimeric, each subunit consisting of an anti-parallel
beta-sandwich. The subunits trimerise via a novel edge-to-face packing of
beta-sheets [5]. Comparison of the subunit fold with that of other proteins
reveals similarity to the 'jelly-roll' structural motif characteristic of
viral coat proteins [5]. It is believed that each TNF molecule has three 
receptor-interaction sites (between the three subunits), thus allowing
signal transmission by receptor clustering [6]. 

TNECROSISFCT is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
tumour necrosis factors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 21 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motif 1 includes beta-strand
1; motif 2 spans strands 2 and 3; motif 3 encodes strands 6 and 7; motif 4
spans strands 9 and 10; and motif 5 encodes strand 11. Two iterations on 
SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 30 sequences was identified.
