OPIOIDPRCRSR
Vertebrate endogenous opioid neuropeptides are released by post-transla-
tional proteolytic cleavage of precursor proteins. The precursors consist of
the following components: a signal sequence that precedes a conserved region
of about 50 residues; a variable-length region; and the sequence of the
neuropeptide itself. Three types of precursor are known: preproenkephalin A 
(gene PENK), which is processed to produce 6 copies of Met-enkephalin, plus 
Leu-enkephalin; preproenkephalin B (gene PDYN), which is processed to
produce neoendorphin, dynorphin, leumorphin, rimorphin and Leu-enkephalin; 
and prepronocipeptin (gene PNOC), whose processing produces nociceptin
(orphanin FQ) and two other potential neuropeptides.

Sequence analysis reveals that the conserved N-terminal region of the
precursors contains 6 cysteines, which are probably involved in disulphide
bond formation. It is speculated that this region might be important for 
neuropeptide processing [1].

OPIOIDPRCRSR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
opioid neuropeptide precursors. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 15 sequences: the motifs were drawn from short conserved 
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motifs 1-3 span the
N-terminal region encoded by PROSITE pattern OPIOIDS_PRECURSOR (PS01252),
which contains the six conserved cysteines thought to be involved in 
disulphide bond formation; and motif 4 spans a conserved region that
contains a copy of a neuropeptide. Two iterations on OWL30.2 were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 19 sequences was
identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of which are family
members and fragments that fail to match one or more motifs.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 17 sequences.
