ACUCPROTEIN
Histone deacetylases (HDA), acetoin utilisation proteins (ACUC) and
acetylpolyamine amidohydrolases (APHA) form an ancient protein superfamily
and are all believed to catalyse the deacetylation of a substrate [1]. HDAs
are found in eukaryotes, from yeast to humans; ACUCs are found in 
eubacteria; and APHAs occur in archaeal bacteria, eubacteria and some
eukaryotic organisms [1]. HDA nomenclature is confusing: the family
can also be identified by the codes RPD, HOS, HD and HDAC, regardless of
specific sequence similarities [1]. HDAs may have evolved at least twice
from APHAs, the more recent gene duplication event resembling APHAs more 
closely [1].

Only the most highly conserved regions in the group of HDAs including RPD3
are similar to regions in the prokaryotic enzymes [2]. Many of the invariant
residues are histidine, glycine, cysteine, aspartic acid or glutamic acid,
and may be essential for maintaining structural integrity or catalytic
activity [1,2]. Histidines and acidic amino acids may be required for the
co-ordination of metal ion cofactors; APHA is known to contain one zinc ion
that is necessary for catalysis [2].

The crystal structure of a HDA homologue from the hyperthermophilic
bacterium Aquifex aeolicus has revealed that it has a single domain
structure belonging to the open alpha/beta class of folds [3]. It consists
of a central eight-stranded parallel beta-sheet and 16 alpha-helices [3].
Seven loops form an active site comprising a tubular pocket, a zinc-binding
site and two Asp-His charge relay systems; thus the active site has features
of metalloproteases and serine proteases [3].

Disrupting the expression of ACUC results in diminished growth of bacteria
on acetoin and butanediol [1]. Acetoin is a bacterial fermentation product
that can be converted to acetate via the butanediol cycle in the absence of
other carbon sources; its degradation is believed to be caused by
deacetylation mediated by ACUC [1].

ACUCPROTEIN is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
acetoin utilisation proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections 
that characterise the ACUC proteins but distinguish them from the rest of 
the HDA superfamily. A single iteration on SPTR37_10f were required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
