FFH4HYDRLASE
An Escherichia coli gene designated purU has been identified and 
characterised [1]. The gene codes for a 280-amino-acid protein, PurU, whose
C-terminal segment (residues 84-280) exhibits 27% identity with 5'-
phosphoribosylglycinamide (GAR) transformylase, the product of purN [1]. 

PurU is an enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate
(formyl-FH4) to FH4 and formate [2]:

	10-FORMYLTETRAHYDROFOLATE + H(2)O = FORMATE + TETRAHYDROFOLATE

Formyl-FH4 hydrolase generates the formate that is used by purT-encoded 
5'-phosphoribosylglycinamide transformylase for step three of de novo purine
nucleotide synthesis [2]. Formyl-FH4 hydrolase, a hexamer of 32kDa subunits,
is activated by methionine and inhibited by glycine [2]. Heterotropic 
cooperativity is observed for activation by methionine in the presence of 
glycine and for inhibition by glycine in the presence of methionine [2]. 
These results suggest that formyl-FH4 hydrolase is a regulatory enzyme whose
main function is to balance the pools of FH4 and C1-FH4 in response to 
changing growth conditions [2]. The enzyme uses methionine and glycine to
sense the pools of C1-FH4 and FH4, respectively [2]. 

FFH4HYDRLASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
formyltetrahydrofolate deformylase. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 6 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the full alignment length. Six iterations on 
SPTR39.22_17.3f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true
set comprising 18 sequences was identified. Several partial matches were
also found, all of which are formyltetrahydrofolate deformylases and puru-
like proteins that fail to make significant matches with one or more motifs.
