NAHEXCHNGR
Na+/H+ exchange proteins eject protons from cells, effectively eliminating
excess acid from actively metabolising cells. Na+/H+ exchange activity is
also crucial for the regulation of cell volume, and for the reabsorption of
NaCl across renal, intestinal, and other epithelia. These antiports exchange
Na+ for H+ in an electroneutral manner, and this activity is carried out by
a family of Na+/H+ exchangers, or NHEs, which are known to be present in
both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. In mammalian cells, Na+/H+ exchange
activity is found in both the plasma membrane and inner mitochondrial
membrane. To date, six mammalian isoforms have been identified (designated
NHE1-NHE6) [1,2]. These exchangers are highly-regulated (glyco)phospho-
proteins, which, based on their primary structure, appear to contain 10-12 
membrane-spanning regions at the N-terminus and a large cytoplasmic region
at the C-terminus. There is some evidence that they may exist in the cell
membrane as homodimers, but little is currently known about the mechanism
of their antiport [3].

NAHEXCHNGR is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
Na+/H+ exchanger family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 18 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the N-terminal half of the alignment - motif 1 encodes hydrophobic
domain M4; motif 2 lies in the second cytoplasmic loop; and motifs 3 and 4 
span hydrophobic domains M5 and M5A respectively. Two iterations on OWL31.1
were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 32 
sequences was identified. Six partial matches were also found: of the 4 of
these from C.elegans, NAH_CAEEL is a probable Na+/H+ exchanger fragment - 
the others, which are derived from cosmid sequencing, include putative NHE
genes; the remaining partial matches, F69355 and S75063, are NHE-like 
proteins from Achaeoglobus fulgidus and Synechocystis sp., respectively.

An update on SPTR57_40f identified a true set of 207 sequences. Several  
of partial matches were also found, all of which are family members that 
fail to make signficant matches with one or more motifs.
