ANKYRIN
The ankyrin repeat is a common structural motif found in a variety of
functionally diverse proteins. Each repeat consists of 33 residues that are
prone to substitutions [1]. Many ankyrin repeats have been shown to moderate
protein-protein interactions, e.g. in cytoskeletal, membrane and regulatory
proteins [2]. The diversity of their sequences leads to their efficacy as
interaction mediators, the character and specificity of interaction being
mediated by particular repeats [3].

Ankyrin repeats are usually found in tandem (one immediately following
another) groups of 4 or more [1]. Their structures are dependent on
interaction and hydrogen bonding with their neighbour repeats, so that the
first and last repeats in a sequence will have different structures from
those in the middle. The repeats generally adopt beta-hairpin helix-loop-
helix conformations [4-7].

ANKYRIN is a 2-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the ankyrin
repeat. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 96 repeats
from 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the
entire repeat - in the common beta-hairpin helix-loop-helix structure, motif
1 spans the beta-hairpin and part of the first helix, and motif 2 encodes
the second helix. Eleven iterations on SPTR39_14f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 138 sequences was
identified. It should be stressed, however, that ankyrin repeats are highly
divergent and occur in such diverse proteins that absolute definition of an
ankyrin repeat 'superfamily' fingerprint is difficult - this result is
therefore intended primarily as a guide.

An update on SPTR57_40f revealed a true set comprising 6,826 sequences -
note that the motifs were modified slightly from the original description
of this fingerprint.
