NAHEXCHNGR1
Na+/H+ exchange proteins eject protons from cells, effectively eliminating
excess acid from actively metabolising cells. Na+/H+ exchange activity is
also crucial for the regulation of cell volume, and for the reabsorption of
NaCl across renal, intestinal, and other epithelia. These antiports exchange
Na+ for H+ in an electroneutral manner, and this activity is carried out by
a family of Na+/H+ exchangers, or NHEs, which are known to be present in
both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. In mammalian cells, Na+/H+ exchange
activity is found in both the plasma membrane and inner mitochondrial
membrane. To date, six mammalian isoforms have been identified (designated
NHE1-NHE6) [1,2]. These exchangers are highly-regulated (glyco)phospho-
proteins, which, based on their primary structure, appear to contain 10-12
membrane-spanning regions at the N-terminus and a large cytoplasmic region
at the C-terminus. There is some evidence that they may exist in the cell
membrane as homodimers, but little is currently known about the mechanism
of their antiport [3].

NHE1 is found in virtually all tissues and cells, where it most likely
fulfils "housekeeping" functions, including the maintenance of cytosolic pH
and of cellular volume. In epithelial cells, it is largely restricted to the
basolateral membrane, which specific subcellular localisation is thought to
be important to the functioning of these epithelia.

NAHEXCHNGR1 is a 12-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
Na+/H+ exchanger isoform 1 (NHE1). The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 7 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise NHE1 but distinguish it from other NHE isoforms -
motif 1 encodes hydrophobic domain A; motifs 2-3 lie in the first putative
cytoplasmic domain; motif 4 spans the C-terminus of hydrophobic domain E,
leading into the second extracellular loop; motif 5 resides in the fourth 
extracellular loop; motif 6 spans hydrophobic domain K; and motifs 7-12 span
the C-terminal putative cytoplasmic domain. Two iterations on OWL31.1 were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 9
sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found: NAHB_ONCMY
is a beta-Na+/H+ exchanger from O.mykiss that matches motifs 4-7, and 12;
and XLNHE is a Na+/H+ exchanger from X.laevis that matches motifs 11 and 12.

An update on SPTR37_9f identified a true set of 7 sequences, and 5
partial matches.
