SPACPROTEIN
The LanC-like protein superfamily encompasses a highly divergent group of
peptide-modifying enzymes, including the eukaryotic and bacterial 
lanthionine synthetase C-like proteins (LanC) [1-3]; subtilin biosynthesis
protein SpaC from Bacillus subtilis [4,5]; epidermin biosynthesis protein
EpiC from Staphylococcus epidermidis [6]; nisin biosynthesis protein NisC 
from Lactoccocus lactis [7-9]; GCR2 from Arabidopsis thaliana [10]; and
many others.  

The 3D structure of the lantibiotic cyclase from L.lactis has been
determined by X-ray crystallography to 2.5A resolution [11]. The globular
structure is characterised by an all-alpha fold, in which an outer ring
of helices envelops an inner toroid composed of 7 shorter, hydrophobic 
helices. This 7-fold hydrophobic periodicity has led several authors to 
claim various members of the family, including eukaryotic LanC-1 and GCR2,
to be novel G protein-coupled receptors [10,12]; some of these claims have
since been corrected [2,13,14].

The SpacC protein from B.subtilis is a cyclase enzyme involved in the
biosynthesis of the lantibiotic subtilin [4,5,15].The protein exists as a
monomer in solution and contains a stoichiometric zinc atom [15], two
cysteines and two histidines possibly acting as ligands to the metal; 
these cysteine residues are highly conserved in LanC-like proteins.

SPACPROTEIN is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
subtilin biosynthesis protein SpaC. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those
sections that characterise the SpaC proteins but distinguish them from 
closely related members of the LanC-like superfamily. A single iteration
on SPTR55_38f was required to reach convergence, no further sequences 
being identified beyond the starting set. Two partial matches were also
found, both of which are members of the LanC-like superfamily that fail to
make significant matches with six motifs.
