SCOASYNTHASE
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells; they possess their own 
primitive genomes and adopt a double-membrane structure in situ, leading to 
the hypothesis that they evolved from symbiont prokaryotes [1]. These 
organelles are the "power houses" of the cytoplasm, carrying out oxidative 
respiration, breaking down various substrates using a variety of enzymes and
electron transfer systems, and providing energy in the form of ATP [1]. 

In the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, acetate is broken down into carbon 
dioxide, with the production of biosynthetic precursors as well as ATP [2].
Twelve enzymes are involved in this process, one of these being succinyl 
CoA-ligase or synthetase [2]. This catalyses the substrate level phos-
phorylation of GTP, succinate, and CoA to GDP, succinyl-CoA and phosphate
[2]. The enzyme is an alpha and beta heterodimer, both chains being similar
to each other. The proteins are also similar to other succinyl-CoA ligases/
sythetases, malate-CoA ligases, and ATP citrate-lyases [2]. 

Recently, a novel set of adhesion virulence factors discovered in the 
genome of the protozoan parasite Trichomonas vaginalis have been shown 
to be similar to the TCA cycle enzymes [3]. Four surface proteins (AP65, 
AP51, AP33 and AP23) are essential both for invasion of the host mucosa by 
the parasite and for maintenance of infection [4]. AP33, in particular, 
seems to be necessary for virulence, and contains the same functional 
domains as the succinyl CoA TCA cycle enzymes [4]. 

The structure of Escherichia coli succinyl CoA-synthetase has been resolved 
to 2.5A by means of X-ray crystallography [5]. It reveals the normally 
heterodimeric enzyme to exist as a heterotetramer [5]. Two active sites are 
located at the corner of the alpha/beta chain contacts, with the substrate 
intermediate, when bound, stabilised by two helix dipoles from the alpha
subunits [5].

SCOASYNTHASE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
succinyl-CoA synthases. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the C-terminal portion of the alignment - motif 1 encodes the C-
terminus of alpha-helix 3 and beta-strand 6; motif 2 spans the C-terminus of
strand 11 and the N-terminus of helix 7; motif 3 encompasses the C-terminus 
of strand 12 and the N-terminus of helix 8; and motif 4 encodes the N-
terminus of helix 9. Three iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach 
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 68 sequences was 
identified. Three partial matches were also found, all CoA enzymes that 
failed to match one or more motifs.
