OCCLUDIN
Occludin was the first molecular component of the tight junction to be
identified. These are specialised membrane domains that form intercellular
contacts between epithelial cells and create a regulated barrier to the
paracellular movement of water, solutes and immune cells. They also provide
a second type of barrier that contributes to cell polarity by restricting
the lateral diffusion of lipids and proteins within cell membranes [1].
Occludin is an ~65kDa type II integral membrane protein, which has been
shown to have four transmembrane (TM) domains, two extracellular loops and
cytoplasmic N- and C-termini. The extracellular loops are chemically quite
distinctive, particularly the first, which has an unusually high content of
tyrosine and glycine residues (~65%) that alternate along the sequence [1].

Gene knockout experiments have suggested occludin is an accessory, rather
than principal, structural component of tight junctions, since occludin-
deficient cells are still able to form tight junctions when cultured in
vitro [2].

OCCLUDIN is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for occludin.
The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the
motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually the full
alignment length - motif 1 lies on the putative cytoplasmic N-terminus;
motif 2 spans the cytoplamsic loop and the start of the third TM domain;
and motifs 3-5 encode short regions of the presumed cytoplasmic C-terminus. 
Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at which 
point a true set comprising 6 sequences was identified.
