SCRYSTALLIN
S-crystallins are the major protein constituent of the lens in cephalopods.
Their primary protein sequences show a high degree (41%) of identity with
the cephalopod digestive gland sigma-class glutathione transferase (GST).
In spite of the sequence similarity, lens S-crystallin shows little if any
GST activity. S-crystallins fail to bind to an S-hexylglutathione affinity
column (marker for glutathione affinity) and have very little GST activity
in a typical substitution reaction with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,
4-dinitrobenzene [1]. Nevertheless, pH rate profiles indicate that any
reactions that do take place proceed via the same mechanism as GSTs [2].

The three-dimensional structure of the sigma-class GST from squid has been
determined to 2.4A resolution [3]. The protein is characterised by two 
domains, one of which has a 3-layer(aba) sandwich architecture, the other
being largely helical. The modelled S-crystallin structure has a similar 
topology to the squid sigma-class GST, with longer helices 4 and 5, 
corresponding to a long insertion. The insertion causes the active centre
to be in a more closed conformation than sigma-class GSTs and may explain
the low affinity for glutathione [1].

SCRYSTALLIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
S-crystallins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions towards the centre
of the alignment, corresponding to the helical domain - motif 1 encodes the
sixth alpha-helix; motif 2 includes the C-terminal portion of helix 7; 
motif 3 encodes the loop between helices 7 and 8; and motif 4 spans helices
8-10. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 27 sequences was identified.
