TCSIALIDASE
Trypanosoma cruzi is a kinetoplastid protozoan parasite of humans and other
animals, the causative agent of Chagas' disease [1]. It is transmitted via 
an insect vector, and exists as an intracellular form, the amastigote, or 
as a trypomastigote form in the blood after infection [1]. In the human 
host, chronic infection by T.cruzi affects the nervous system and heart, 
leading to various neurological disorders, damage to the heart muscle and 
eventually death [1]. 

The parasite expresses a variety of virulence factors in order to 
successfully invade the mammalian or insect host [2]. One of these is
unique to the genus Trypanosoma, a sialic acid-metabolising enzyme, dubbed
"trans-sialidase" [2,3], classified as a member of glycosyl hydrolase 
family 33. The protein catalyses the transfer of host cell sialic acids to 
acceptor receptors on the protozoan cell membrane, allowing the parasite to 
evade the immune response and enter the cell undetected [3]. It also acts as
the major 85kDa surface antigen of T.cruzi [3], and exhibits neuraminidase 
activity similar to that of some pathogenic viruses [3].

Research into the gene has revealed a massive diversity in the expression 
of this surface antigen/sialidase [4]. The variation in its amino acid 
sequences begs the question why such a successful parasite should need so 
many different versions of the same virulence factor [4]. 

TCSIALIDASE is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
Trypanosome sialidase family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 11 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning the C-terminal portion of the alignment - motifs 1-7 reside in the
Cys-rich domain and motifs 8-10 lie in the fibronectin type III domain. Two 
iterations on SPTR40_20f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 23 sequences was identified. Several partial matches
were also found, all of which are Trypanosoma spp. or bacterial sialidases
that failed to match 4 or more motifs. 
