MIC1MICRNEME
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular apicomplexan protozoan 
parasite, with a complex lifestyle involving varied hosts [1]. It has two 
phases of growth: an intestinal phase in feline hosts, and an extra-
intestinal phase in other mammals. Oocysts from infected cats develop 
into tachyzoites, and eventually, bradyzoites and zoitocysts in the 
extraintestinal host [1]. Transmission of the parasite occurs through 
contact with infected cats or raw/undercooked meat; in immunocompromised 
individuals, it can cause severe and often lethal toxoplasmosis. Acute 
infection in healthy humans can sometimes also cause tissue damage [1].

The protozoan utilises a variety of secretory and antigenic proteins to 
invade a host and gain access to the intracellular environment [2]. These 
originate from distinct organelles in the T.gondii cell termed micronemes,  
rhoptries, and dense granules. They are released at specific times during 
invasion to ensure the proteins are allocated to their correct target 
destinations [2]. 

MIC1, a protein secreted from the microneme, is a 456-residue moiety
involved in host cell recognition by the parasite [3]. The protein is
released from the apical pole of T.gondii during infection, and attaches to
host-specific receptors [4]. Recent studies have demonstrated that Mic1 is
a lactose-binding lectin, and utilises this to enhance its binding to host
endothelial cells [4]. A homologue of Mic1 found in Neospora caninum 
interacts with sulphated host cell-surface glycosaminoglycans [5]. 

MIC1MICRNEME is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
MIC1 microneme proteins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial 
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning the C-terminal portion of the alignment (~380 amino acids). A
single iteration on SPTR40_20f was required to reach convergence, no 
further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. 
