TETRPHPHTASE
MutT is a small bacterial protein (~12-15kDa) involved in the GO system [1]
responsible for removing an oxidatively damaged form of guanine (8-hydroxy-
guanine or 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine) from the nucleotide pool. 8-oxo-dGTP
is inserted opposite dA and dC residues of template DNA with near equal
efficiency, leading to A.T to G.C transversions. MutT degrades 8-oxo-dGTP
to the monophosphate, with the concomitant release of pyrophosphate. A short
conserved N-terminal region of mutT (designated the MutT domain) is also
found in a variety of other prokaryotic, viral, and eukaryotic proteins
[2-5]. Recently, the generic name 'NUDIX hydrolases' (NUcleoside DIphosphate
linked to some other moeity X) has been coined for this domain family [6].

The enzyme diadenosine 5',5''-P1,P4-tetraphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase 
asymmetrically hydrolyses AP4A to yield AMP and ATP. The catalysed reaction
is as follows:
    P(1),P(4)-bis(5'-adenosyl)tetraphosphate + H(2)O = ATP + AMP.

The cDNA and derived amino acid sequence of human diadenosine 5',5"'- 
P1,P4-tetraphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase have been determined by means of
EST analysis [7]. The protein possesses a modification of the MutT domain 
found in certain nucleotide pyrophosphatases. 

TETRPHPHTASE is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
bis(5'-nucleosyl)-tetraphosphatases. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved 
regions spanning the N- and C-terminal portions of the alignment - motifs 1
and 2 lie N-terminal to the MutT domain; and motifs 3-6 lie C-terminal to
it. Two iterations on SPTR37_10f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 3 sequences was identified.
