NTKRECEPTOR
Neurotrophins are a family of secreted proteins that regulate development, 
maintenance and function of vertebrate nervous systems. They act via two 
different classes of receptor: p75NTR (a member of the TNF receptor 
superfamily), and neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptors (NTRKs) - also 
known as tropomyosin-related kinases (Trks) [1]. 

NTRKs are multi-domain, transmembrane proteins - in addition to their
cytoplasmic kinase domains, members of the family possess a number of
extracellular leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and Ig-like C2-type regions. Ligand
binding induces them to dimerise, resulting in activation of their
cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domains. The activated receptors couple to a
variety of intracellular signalling cascades, including the Ras,
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3 kinase), mitogen-activated protein (MAP)
kinase, and phospholipase C (PLC)-gamma pathways [2].

NTKRECEPTOR is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor family. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 5 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions within the N-terminal extracellular domain - motif 1 spans
the first LRR region; and motifs 2 and 3 lie within the first and second
Ig-like C2-type domains, respectively. Two iterations on SPTR55_38f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 34
sequences was identified. A single partial match was also found,
A8WGA3_DANRE, a translated mRNA sequence from zebrafish that fails to match
motif 3.
