GPR153GPR162
Computational methods, including percent identity plots, hydropathy profiles
and BLAST, have been used to analyse a gene-rich cluster at human chromosome
12p13 and to compare it with its syntenic region in mouse chromosome 6 [1-3].
Of 6 genes identified, one of these, termed Gene A, revealed 3 splice forms:
form A2 demonstrated a clear 7-transmembrane (TM) hydropathy profile, and
showed very weak similarity to members of the G protein-coupled receptor 
(GPCR) superfamily [3].

GPCRs mediate a wide range of physiological functions, are major drug
targets, and are consequently the subject of considerable research interest.
In 2003, Vassilatis et al. reported that the repertoire of GPCRs for 
endogenous ligands consisted of 367 receptors in humans and 392 in mice,
including 26 from human and 83 from mouse that had not been identified
previously [4]. 

Amongst these novel receptors were GP153 (also known as PGR1) and GP162 
(also known as GRCA). While these sequences do show some similarity to 
rhodopsin-class GPCRs (most notably to certain tyramine and serotonin
receptors, particularly in the region of TM domain 4), the overall degree
of similarity is very low, and evidence that these are functional GPCRs has
not been gathered experimentally.

GPR153GPR162 is a 7-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
GP153/GP162 7TM protein family. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 7 sequences - the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning virtually the full alignment length, motifs 1-7 encoding the 7
most hydrophobic, presumed TM regions. Two iterations on SPTR55_38f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 8 
sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also found, Q3KR68_RAT 
and Q3TY71_MOUSE, both of which are family members, failing to make
significant matches with motifs 6 and 7 respectively.
