EPMEMPROT1
The epithelial membrane proteins (EMP-1, -2 and -3), peripheral myelin 
protein 22 (PMP22), and lens fiber membrane intrinsic protein (LMIP)
comprise a protein family on the basis of sequence and structural 
similarities [1]. Each family member is a small hydrophobic membrane
glycoprotein, ~160-170 amino acids in length, and shares a common predicted
transmembrane (TM) topology of 4 TM domains, with intracellular N- and 
C-termini [2]. 

EMP-1, previously termed tumour-associated membrane protein (TMP), was 
originally isolated from a mouse brain tumour [3]. Human, rat and rabbit
isoforms have also been identified. EMP-1 is expressed in a wide range of
tissues, including heart, placenta, lung, skeletal muscle, kidney and small
intestine [4]. A role for the protein in the control of cell growth has
been suggested [1]. EMP-1 is expressed at high levels in proliferating
cells, and at reduced levels in cells undergoing growth arrest [3]. In
contrast, PMP22, which is co-expressed with EMP-1 in a range of tissues,
displays an inverse pattern of regulation, with high levels of expression
in cultured cells undergoing growth arrest [3]. It has therefore been 
proposed that these proteins may have reciprocal functions in the control
of cell quiescence and proliferation.

EPMEMPROT1 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
epithelial membrane protein EMP-1. The fingerprint was derived from an 
initial alignment of 4 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved loop
and TM regions, focusing on those sections that characterise epithelial 
membrane protein EMP-1 but distinguish it from other family members - motifs
1 and 2 lie in the first extracellular loop; and motif 3 resides within 
TM domain 3. A single iteration on SPTR39_14f was required to reach
convergence, no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
