CD36ANTIGEN
CD36 is a transmembrane, highly glycosylated, 88kDa glycoprotein [1] 
expressed by monocytes, macrophages, platelets, microvascular endothelial 
cells and adipose tissue [2]. It is a multifunctional receptor that binds
to oxidised LDL (OxLDL), long chain fatty acids, anionic phospholipids,
apoptotic cells, thrombospondin (TSP), collagen and Plasmodium falciparum-
infected erythrocytes [2].

CD36 has numerous cellular functions. It is a type B scavenger receptor, 
playing a major role in the uptake of OxLDL by macrophages [3]. The lipid-
rich macrophages are then differentiated into foam cells and contribute to
the formation of atherosclerotic lesions [3]. In addition, CD36 of macro-
phages, together with TSP and the integrin alphav beta3, can phagocytose
apoptotic neutrophils [4]. Furthermore, the protein is one of the receptors
of collagen in platelet adhesion and aggregation [5,6]. CD36 can also
mediate cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes to the
endothelium of post-capillary venules of different organs [7]. Moreover,
cytoplasmic CD36 plays an important role in signal transduction by inter-
acting with Src family tyrosine kinases [8]. Deficiency in CD36 in Asian
and African populations has been associated with insulin resistance [9]. 

CD36 is a 13-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the CD36
adhesion molecules. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment
of 4 sequences, focusing on those sections that characterise CD36 adhesion 
molecules but distinguish them from the rest of the CD36 family: motif 1
spans the first putative, N-terminal TM domain; motifs 2-12 reside in the
extracellular domain; and motif 13 spans the second putative, C-terminal 
TM domain. Two iterations on SPTR40_18f were required to reach convergence, 
at which point a true set comprising 6 sequences was identified.
