TNFC
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) (or cachectin) is a monocyte-derived cytotoxin
that has been implicated in tumour regression, septic shock and cachexia
[1,2]. The protein is synthesised as a prohormone with an unusually long 
and atypical signal sequence, which is absent from the mature secreted
cytokine [3]. A short hydrophobic stretch of amino acids serves to anchor 
the prohormone in lipid bilayers [4]. Both the mature protein and a 
partially-processed form of the hormone are secreted after cleavage of the
propeptide [4]. 

Lymphotoxin-alpha (LT-alpha or TNF-beta) and lymphotoxin-beta (LT-beta) are
related cytokines produced by lymphocytes. The proteins are cytotoxic for a
wide range of tumour cells in vitro and in vivo. The gene for LT-beta is
found next to the TNF-LT locus in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC),
a region of the MHC with possible linkage to autoimmune disease [5]. It is
possible that a surface LT-alpha/LT-beta complex may have a specific role
in immune regulation distinct from the functions ascribed to TNF [5]. 

TNFC is an 8-element fingerprint that provides a signature for tumour 
necrosis factor C (LT-beta). The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions 
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise TNF-C but distinguish it from the rest of the TNF family -
motif 2 spans the putative signal-anchor. A single iteration on SPTR37_10f
was required to reach convergence, no further sequences being identified 
beyond the starting set. A single partial match was found, P78370, a human
lymphotoxin-beta isoform variant that matches motifs 1 and 2.
