VEGFRECEPTOR
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent and specific
endothelial cell mitogen [1]. Through binding with its receptor, VEGFR, VEGF
has critical roles in the growth and maintenance of vascular endothelial
cells and in the development of new blood- and lymphatic-vessels in
physiological and pathological states [2]. The vessel systems are important 
for the supply of oxygen and nutrients to all tissues of the body, as well
as for the drainage of excess fluids with waste metabolites from peripheral
tissues. VEGF receptors have a characteristic structure, with 7 Ig-like
domains in the extracellular domain and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain
with a long kinase insert region.

The VEGF receptor family consists of three members, VEGFR-1 (Flt-1), VEGFR-2
(KDR/Flk-1) and VEGFR-3 (Flt-4), all of which belong to the receptor type
tyrosine kinase superfamily [3]. Among these receptors, VEGFR-1 binds
strongest to VEGF, VEGF-2 binds more weakly, and VEGFR-3 shows essentially
no binding, although it does bind to other members of the VEGF family.

VEGFRECEPTOR is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
vascular endothelial growth factor receptors. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 12 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions within the extracellular domain, motifs 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 
residing within the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th Ig-like domains, respectively
- motif 3 spans beta-strands 5 and 6. Two iterations on SPTR40_20f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 18 
sequences was identified.
