AQUAPORIN9
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-9 forms a channel with a broad specificity [1]. It mediates
passage of a wide variety of non-charged solutes (including carbamides, 
polyols, purines and pyrimidines) in a phloretin- and mercury-sensitive
manner, while excluding amino acids, cyclic sugars, Na+, K+, Cl- and
deprotonated monocarboxylates. It is also permeable to urea but not to
glycerol. Aquaporin-9 is found in the liver [2], where it takes part in
glycerol transport, and in the placenta, where its permeability to small
molecules is implicated in the metabolic balance of pregnancy pathology [3].

AQUAPORIN9 is a 5-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
aquaporin-9. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motif 1 lies in the cytoplasmic N-terminal domain; motif
2 lies in the second TM domain; motif 3 resides in the extracellular
region between TM domains 3 and 4; motif 4 spans the end of the sixth TM 
domain and the beginning of the cytoplasmic C-terminal region; and motif 5
spans the rest of the cytoplasmic C-terminal region. Two iterations on
SPTR57_40f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 6 sequences was identified. Four partial matches were also
found, all of which are fragments or family members that fail to make
significant matches with one or more motifs.
