RCMTFMUVIRPL
RNA (C5-cytosine) methyltransferases (RCMTs) catalyse the transfer of a 
methyl group to the 5th carbon of a cytosine base in RNA sequences to 
produce C5-methylcytosine. RCMTs use the cofactor S-adenosyl-L-methionine 
(SAM) as a methyl donor [1]. The catalytic mechanism of RCMTs involves an
attack by the thiolate of a Cys residue on position 6 of the target cytosine
base to form a covalent link, thereby activating C5 for methyl-group 
transfer. Following the addition of the methyl group, a second Cys residue
acts as a general base in the beta-elimination of the proton from the 
methylated cytosine ring. The free enzyme is restored and the methylated
product is released [2].

Numerous putative RCMTs have been identified in archaea, bacteria and
eukaryota [3,4]; most are predicted to be nuclear or nucleolar proteins [5].
The Escherichia coli Ribosomal RNA Small-subunit Methyltransferase Beta
(RSMB) FMU (FirMicUtes) represents the first protein identified and
characterised as a cytosine-specific RNA methyltransferase. RSMB was
reported to catalyse the formation of C5-methylcytosine at position 967 of
16S rRNA [6,7].

A classification of RCMTs has been proposed on the basis of sequence
similarity [3]. According to this classification, RCMTs are divided into
8 distinct subfamilies [3]. Recently, a new RCMT subfamily, termed RCMT9,
was identified [4]. Members of the RCMT contain a core domain, responsible
for the cytosine-specific RNA methyltransferase activity. This 'catalytic'
domain adopts the Rossmann fold for the accommodation of the cofactor SAM
[8]. The RCMT subfamilies are also distinguished by N-terminal and
C-terminal extensions, variable both in size and sequence [3].    

Proteins related to the FMU subfamily of RCMTs have been detected in the
genomes of Viridiplantae [4]. They were provisionally assigned to the FMU
subfamily [4], which hitherto was considered to be restricted to Eubacteria,
based solely on similarity to the prototypic member of this subfamily, the
E.coli FMU protein [6,7]. 

RCMTFMUVIRPL is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the 
Viridiplantae FMU-related RCMTs. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 2 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length - motifs 1-3 reside at the
N-terminus; motif 4 lies in the core 'catalytic' region. Two iterations on
SPTR57.15_40.15f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true
set comprising 9 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were also
found, A5ATX4_VITVI and A9NW22_PICSI, both of which are fragments that
lack the portion of sequence bearing motif 4.
