BOMBYXIN
The insulin family of proteins groups together several evolutionarily
related active peptides [1]: these include insulin [2,3], relaxin [4,5],
insect prothoracicotropic hormone (bombyxin) [6], insulin-like growth
factors (IGF1 and IGF2) [7,8], mammalian Leydig cell-specific insulin-like
peptide (gene INSL3), early placenta insulin-like peptide (ELIP) (gene
INSL4), locust insulin-related peptide (LIRP), molluscan insulin-related
peptides (MIP), and Caenorhabditis elegans insulin-like peptides. The 3D
structures of a number of family members have been determined [7-9]. The
fold comprises two polypeptide chains (A and B) linked by two disulphide
bonds: all share a conserved arrangement of 4 cysteines in their A chain,
the first of which is linked by a disulphide bond to the third, while the
second and fourth are linked by interchain disulphide bonds to cysteines
in the B chain.

Bombyxin is a brain peptide responsible for activation of prothoracic glands
to produce ecdysone in insects [10].

BOMBYXIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
bombyxins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 20
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually
the full alignment length, focusing on those sections that characterise
bombyxins but distinguish them from closely related members of the insulin
family. Two iterations on SPTR55_38f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 25 sequences was identified. Five partial
matches were also found, all of which are bombyxins that fail to make a 
significant match with one or more motifs.
