AQUAPORIN11
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-11 (AQP11) and aquaporin-12 belong to a new aquaporin subfamily
termed superaquaporins [1]. AQP11 is found in the endoplasmic reticulum and
has been connected to policystic kidney disease through knock-out
experiments [2]. It has also been shown that although the characteristic
NPA motif may not be fully conserved in both tandem repeats, the molecule
nevertheless preserves its water-transport function [3].

AQUAPORIN11 is a 13-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
aquaporin-11. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motif 1 lies in the cytoplasmic N-terminal region; motif
2 encodes the first putative TM domain; motif 3 spans the extracellular 
region between TM domains 1 and 2; motif 4 spans the end of the second TM
domain and part of the cytoplasmic region between TM domains 2 and 3; motif
5 spans the rest of this region and part of the third TM domain; motifs 6-10
reside in the large extracellular region between TM domains 3 and 4; motif
11 spans part of TM domain 4 and most of the following cytoplasmic region;
motif 12 lies in the extracellular region between TM domains 5 and 6; and
motif 13 spans the end of TM domain 6 and part of the cytoplasmic C-terminal
region. A single iteration on SPTR57_40f was required to reach convergence,
no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set.
