INSLNLIKEGF2
The insulin family of proteins groups together several evolutionarily
related active peptides [1]: these include insulin [2,3], relaxin [4,5],
insect prothoracicotropic hormone (bombyxin) [6], insulin-like growth
factors (IGF1 and IGF2) [7,8], mammalian Leydig cell-specific insulin-like
peptide (gene INSL3), early placenta insulin-like peptide (ELIP) (gene 
INSL4), locust insulin-related peptide (LIRP), molluscan insulin-related
peptides (MIP), and Caenorhabditis elegans insulin-like peptides. The 3D 
structures of a number of family members have been determined [7-9]. The 
fold comprises two polypeptide chains (A and B) linked by two disulphide
bonds: all share a conserved arrangement of 4 cysteines in their A chain,
the first of which is linked by a disulphide bond to the third, while the
second and fourth are linked by interchain disulphide bonds to cysteines
in the B chain.

The IGFs, or somatomedins, play a key role in pre-adolescent mammalian 
growth. IGF2 appears to be induced by placental lactogen and is thought
to play a role in foetal development [10].

INSLNLIKEGF2 is a 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
insulin-like growth factor II. The fingerprint was derived from an initial
alignment of 9 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions
spanning virtually the full alignment length, focusing on those sections
that characterise insulin-like growth factor II but distinguish it from 
closely related members of the insulin family. Three iterations on 
SPTR55_38f were required to reach convergence, at which point a true set
comprising 70 sequences was identified. Five partial matches were also
found, all of which are insulin-like growth factor II precursors that fail
to make a signficant match with motif 1 or 3.
