AQUAPORIN6
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-6 forms a water-specific channel [1] that participates in distinct
physiological functions, such as glomerular filtration, tubular endocytosis 
and acid-base metabolism. It is found in the kidney and gastrointestinal
tract [2], and is also localised in the inner ear of mammals [3]. It is a
pH-regulated anion channel [4], and has been found to bind calmodulin in a
calcium-dependent manner, possibly providing a vital clue to its
physiological role in the kidney [5].

AQUAPORIN6 is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
aquaporin 6. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 3
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motifs 1 and 2 span the cytoplasmic N-terminus; motif 3
spans the end of TM domain 2 and the start of the cytoplasmic domain 
between TM regions 2 and 3; motif 4 spans the end of this cytoplasmic region
and the start of the third TM domain; motifs 5 and 6 encode the end of TM
domain 3 and the extracellular region between TM regions 3 and 4; motif 7 
spans the cytoplasmic region between TM domains 4 and 5 and the fifth TM
domain; and motifs 8-10 reside in the cytoplasmic C-terminal domain. Two
iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach convergence, at which point
a true set comprising 4 sequences was identified. Two partial matches were
also found, all of which are fragments or family members that fail to make
significant matches with one or more motifs.
