AQUAPORIN8
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-8 forms a mercury-sensitive water-specific channel [1,2]. It may
have an important role in spermatogenesis, in fertilisation, and in the
secretion of pancreatic juice and saliva [3]. It is also found in the liver,
in bile canalicular membranes, where it takes part in bile formation [4].

AQUAPORIN8 is a 10-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
aquaporin-8. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 4 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motifs 1 and 2 span most of the cytoplasmic N-terminus
and part of the first putative TM domain; motifs 3 and 4 span most of the
extracellular domain between TM regions 1 and 2; motif 5 lies in the third
TM domain; motifs 6 and 7 span the extracellular domain between TM regions 3
and 4; motif 8 encodes the cytoplasmic region between TM domains 4 and 5;
motif 9 lies at the end of the sixth TM domain; and motif 10 resides in the
cytoplasmic C-terminal region. Three iterations on SPTR57_40f were required
to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 5 sequences
was identified. Three partial matches were also found, all of which are
fragments or family members that fail to make significant matches with one
or more motifs.
