AQUAPORIN4
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-4 is an osmoreceptor that regulates body water balance and 
mediates water flow within the central nervous system [1]. It is the 
predominant aquaporin found in the brain. It is organised into assemblies
called square arrays [2], and has been shown to have an effect on brain
oedema, synapse function and cellular migration under pathological
conditions. It has 6 isoforms, three of which are functional water channels.
The expression of aquaporin-4 is believed to be related to urine
concentration levels [3].

AQUAPORIN4 is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
aquaporin 4. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions within the 
C-terminal half of the alignment in order to accommodate a shorter splice
variant - motif 1 resides in the extracellular domain between TM regions 3 
and 4; motif 2 spans the end of the domain and part of TM region 4; motif 3
spans part of the first cytoplasmic domain and part of the fifth TM region;
motif 4 resides in the extracellular domain between TM regions 5 and 6;
motif 5 encodes the end of the sixth TM region; and motif 6 resides entirely
in the cytoplasmic C-terminal region. Three iterations on SPTR57_40f were 
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 15 
sequences was identified. Four partial matches were also found, all of which
are fragments or family members that fail to make significant matches with
one or more motifs.
