AQUAPORIN5
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-5 takes part in saliva production [1], the release of tears in the
lacrimal glands, and water homeostasis in the lungs. It is water specific
and is expressed mainly in the lung epithelium. Aquaporin-5 is therefore
connected with certain lung pathologies following lung trauma, and some 
pathological conditions leading to dysfunction in the salivary and lacrimal
glands [2].

AQUAPORIN5 is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for
aquaporin-5. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 5
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full
alignment length - motif 1 spans the N-terminal cytoplasmic domain; motif 2
spans the extracellular domain between TM regions 3 and 4; motif 3 resides 
in the extracellular domain between TM regions 5 and 6; and motif 4 lies at 
the end of the cytoplasmic C-terminus. Two iterations on SPTR57_40f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 6
sequences was identified. Three partial matches were also found, all of
which are fragments or family members that fail to make significant matches
with one or more motifs.
