B14GALTRFASE
Beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase is responsible for catalysing the transfer
of galactose onto proteins or lipids [1]. Studies on C.elegans have shown 
that the enzyme is required for susceptibility to pore-forming crystal 
toxins, together with glycosyltransferase genes bre-1, bre-2, bre-3 and 
bre-5 [2]. 

In mammals, the protein is found in long and short forms. The short form
is preferentially located in the golgi complex [3], where it catalyses the
production of lactose in the lactating mammary gland; it may also be
responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides of
various glycoproteins, as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids.
The short form is preferentially targeted to the plasma membrane of many
cell types [3], where it functions as a recognition molecule during 
various cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, by binding to specific
oligosaccharide ligands on opposing cells, or in the extracellular matrix. 

B14GALTRFASE is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase family. The fingerprint was derived from an
initial alignment of 33 sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved
regions spanning the C-terminal half of the alignment - motif 2 includes a
metal-binding aspartate residue. Twelve iterations on SPTR57.15_40.15f were
required to reach convergence, at which point a true set comprising 192 
sequences was identified. Several partial matches were also found, all of 
which are related proteins that fail to make significant matches with one 
or more motifs.
