RCMTNOP2
RNA (C5-cytosine) methyltransferases (RCMTs) catalyse the transfer of a 
methyl group to the 5th carbon of a cytosine base in RNA sequences to 
produce C5-methylcytosine. RCMTs use the cofactor S-adenosyl-L-methionine 
(SAM) as a methyl donor [1]. The catalytic mechanism of RCMTs involves an
attack by the thiolate of a Cys residue on position 6 of the target cytosine
base to form a covalent link, thereby activating C5 for methyl-group 
transfer. Following the addition of the methyl group, a second Cys residue
acts as a general base in the beta-elimination of the proton from the 
methylated cytosine ring. The free enzyme is restored and the methylated
product is released [2].

Numerous putative RCMTs have been identified in archaea, bacteria and
eukaryota [3,4]; most are predicted to be nuclear or nucleolar proteins [5].
The Escherichia coli Ribosomal RNA Small-subunit Methyltransferase Beta
(RSMB) FMU (FirMicUtes) represents the first protein identified and
characterised as a cytosine-specific RNA methyltransferase. RSMB was
reported to catalyse the formation of C5-methylcytosine at position 967 of
16S rRNA [6,7].

A classification of RCMTs has been proposed on the basis of sequence
similarity [3]. According to this classification, RCMTs are divided into
8 distinct subfamilies [3]. Recently, a new RCMT subfamily, termed RCMT9,
was identified [4]. Members of the RCMT contain a core domain, responsible
for the cytosine-specific RNA methyltransferase activity. This 'catalytic'
domain adopts the Rossmann fold for the accommodation of the cofactor SAM
[8]. The RCMT subfamilies are also distinguished by N-terminal and
C-terminal extensions, variable both in size and sequence [3].    

The prototypical member of the Nucleolar Protein 2 RCMT subfamily, the
S.cerevisiae NOP2, is an essential nucleolar protein required for pre-rRNA
processing and 60S ribosomal subunit assembly [9]; it has been proposed to
act as a ribosomal RNA methyltransferase [10]. Its human homologue, the 
proliferation-associated nucleolar antigen P120, is a promising tumour
marker [11]. P120 has been demonstrated to be implicated in rRNA biogenesis
[12], and is also proposed to act as an rRNA methyltransferase [13].

RCMTNOP2 is an 3-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the RNA
(C5-cytosine) methyltransferase NOP2 subfamily. The fingerprint was derived
from an initial alignment of 24 sequences: the motifs were drawn from
conserved regions spanning virtually the full alignment length - motifs 1
and 2 reside at the N-terminus; and motif 3 lies in the core 'catalytic'
region. Two iterations on SPTR57.15_40.15f were required to reach
convergence, at which point a true set comprising 130 sequences was
identified. Nine partial matches were also found: these include the
fragment, A8NFQ8_COPC7, which lacks the portion of the sequence bearing
motif 1, and eight NOP2-related proteins that fail to make significant
matches with motif 2.
