PLACENTIN
The insulin family of proteins groups together several evolutionarily
related active peptides [1]: these include insulin [2,3], relaxin [4,5],
insect prothoracicotropic hormone (bombyxin) [6], insulin-like growth
factors (IGF1 and IGF2) [7,8], mammalian Leydig cell-specific insulin-like
peptide (gene INSL3), early placenta insulin-like peptide (ELIP) (gene
INSL4), locust insulin-related peptide (LIRP), molluscan insulin-related
peptides (MIP), and Caenorhabditis elegans insulin-like peptides. The 3D
structures of a number of family members have been determined [7-9]. The
fold comprises two polypeptide chains (A and B) linked by two disulphide 
bonds: all share a conserved arrangement of 4 cysteines in their A chain,
the first of which is linked by a disulphide bond to the third, while the
second and fourth are linked by interchain disulphide bonds to cysteines
in the B chain.

Placenta insulin-like peptide, also known as placentin, was initially
identified by cDNA library screening [10]. Placentin may participate in the 
cellular proliferation and/or differentiation processes during placental 
development [11].

PLACENTIN is a 4-element fingerprint that provides a signature for the
placentins. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 2 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning virtually 
the alignment length - motif 1 lies in the B chain; motif 2 resides
partially within the B chain; and motifs 3 and 4 reside in the A chain. 
A single iteration on SPTR57.15_40.15f was required to reach convergence,
no further sequences being identified beyond the starting set. Note: the
fingerprint does not match the Drosophila probable insulin-like peptide 4 
(INSL4_DROME), whose sequence signature is clearly very different.
