AQUAPORIN2
Aquaporins form water-specific channels that provide the plasma membranes 
of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water,
thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.
Aquaporin amino acid sequences contain two tandem repeats, each containing
three transmembrane (TM) domains and a pore-forming loop, with the signature
motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).

Aquaporin-2 forms a water-specific channel implicated in the generation of
saliva, tears and pulmonary secretions. A vasopressin-dependent regulation
through phosphorylation/dephosphorylation is proposed [1]. Defects in
aquaporin-2 are the cause of autosomal nephrogenic diabetes insipidus(ANDI)
[2,3,4], also known as diabetes insipidus nephrogenic type 2. ANDI is caused
by the inability of the renal collecting ducts to absorb water in response
to arginine vasopressin. It is characterised by excessive water drinking
(polydypsia), excessive urine excretion (polyuria), persistent hypotonic 
urine, and hypokalemia. Inheritance may be autosomal dominant or recessive.

AQUAPORIN2 is a 6-element fingerprint that provides a signature for 
aquaporin-2. The fingerprint was derived from an initial alignment of 6 
sequences: the motifs were drawn from conserved regions spanning the full 
alignment length - motif 1 spans the cytoplasmic N-terminus; motif 2
includes the extracellular domain between TM regions 1 and 2; motif 3
includes the end of the third TM region and the beginning of the extra-
cellular region between TM regions 3 and 4; motif 4 includes the end of the
last TM region; and motifs 5 and 6 reside in the cytoplasmic C-terminal
region. Two iterations on SPTR57_40f were required to reach convergence, at
which point a true set comprising 8 sequences was identified. Seven partial
matches were also found, all of which are fragments or family members that
fail to make significant matches with one or more motifs.
